content/configuration/item-appearance.mdx, before:

---
description: How to customize your item appearance?
cover: >-
  https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/896841738621177896/966824489490976798/unknown.png
coverY: 0
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

Unlike most other plugins that allow you to create custom items, Oraxen supports the creation of a texture pack: you can define directly in the configuration what you want your items to look like and it will take care of generating the pack. For Minecraft, the appearance of each item is managed by a json file called the model. Oraxen can generate these files automatically.

### How Oraxen handles item models

Oraxen supports multiple systems for item appearance on 1.21.4+. **These systems can be combined** for maximum compatibility. Pre-1.21.4 servers always use legacy predicate overrides.

<Callout type="info">
**Default behavior:**
- **Pre-1.21.4**: Legacy predicates (forced, regardless of settings)
- **1.21.4+**: Item Model Definitions (`item_properties: true`)
</Callout>

### Appearance Systems (1.21.4+)

On 1.21.4+, you can enable multiple appearance systems in `settings.yml`:

```yaml
Pack:
  generation:
    appearance:
      item_properties: true        # Use item_model component (default)
      model_data_ids: false        # Use custom_model_data.strings with select
      model_data_float_legacy: false  # Use custom_model_data.floats with range_dispatch
```

**Available systems:**

| Setting | Pack Output | Item Component | Use Case |
|---------|-------------|----------------|----------|
| `item_properties` | `assets/oraxen/items/<id>.json` | `item_model` component | **Default.** Clean 1.21.4+ setup using item model definitions. |
| `model_data_ids` | `assets/minecraft/items/<material>.json` | `custom_model_data.strings[0]` | Uses `minecraft:select` with string keys (`oraxen:<item_id>`). Good for CMD-based workflows with stable identifiers. |
| `model_data_float_legacy` | `assets/minecraft/items/<material>.json` | `custom_model_data.floats[0]` | Uses `minecraft:range_dispatch` with numeric thresholds. Also generates legacy predicate overrides automatically. |

<Callout type="info">
**Which systems should I enable?**
- **`item_properties` only** — Best for new setups. Clean, modern, no collision with other plugins.
- **`item_properties` + `model_data_ids`** — Hybrid setup. Items have both `item_model` component AND `custom_model_data.strings[0]` set.
- **`model_data_float_legacy`** — Full legacy compatibility. Automatically generates predicate overrides and sets integer CMD.
</Callout>

### Combining Systems

You can enable multiple systems to set multiple components on items:

```yaml
appearance:
  item_properties: true   # Sets item_model component
  model_data_ids: true    # Also sets custom_model_data.strings[0]
```

This gives you the best of both worlds: native 1.21.4+ rendering via `item_model`, plus `custom_model_data` strings for plugins that read them.

<Callout type="warning">
**Note:** `model_data_ids` and `model_data_float_legacy` cannot both be enabled—they write to the same pack file path (`assets/minecraft/items/*.json`). If both are enabled, `model_data_ids` takes priority for pack generation.
</Callout>

### Legacy Compatibility (model_data_float_legacy)

When `model_data_float_legacy` is enabled, Oraxen automatically:
1. Sets `custom_model_data.floats[0]` on items
2. Sets integer `CustomModelData` on items (for legacy plugins)
3. Generates legacy predicate overrides (`assets/minecraft/models/item/*.json`)
4. Generates `minecraft:range_dispatch` item definitions

This provides full backward compatibility with pre-1.21.4 workflows and plugins that expect integer CMD values.

### Per-Item System Exclusions

You can exclude specific items from either system:

```yaml
my_item:
  Pack:
    generate_model: true
    textures:
      - my_texture
    exclude_from_predicates: false   # Don't add to predicate file
    exclude_from_item_model: false   # Don't generate item model definition
```

**Use cases:**
- `exclude_from_predicates: true` - Item only uses item_model (cleaner pack)
- `exclude_from_item_model: true` - Item only uses CMD (for plugin compatibility)

<details>
<summary>**Advanced**: How each system works</summary>

**Item Model Definitions (1.21.4+)**

Oraxen generates files in `assets/oraxen/items/` for each custom item. For example, an item with ID `my_sword` creates:

```
assets/oraxen/items/my_sword.json
```

This file defines which model to display. Items are then given an `item_model` component pointing to `oraxen:my_sword`.

If you need a custom namespace or model path, you can override this using the Components section:

```yaml
my_item:
  Components:
    item_model: "custom:weapons/legendary_sword"
```

This would reference `assets/custom/items/weapons/legendary_sword.json` in the resource pack.

**Predicates (Custom Model Data)**

Oraxen generates predicate overrides in the base item model files (e.g., `assets/minecraft/models/item/diamond_sword.json`). Each custom item gets a `custom_model_data` value that maps to its model.

</details>

### The pack folder

This folder (./plugins/Oraxen/pack) contains your pack. It works like a normal minecraft texture pack but simpler. You can drag your textures into the textures folder and your models into your models folder. You can also create sub-folders inside these folders to make it cleaner but it's not necessary. When the plugin generates the resource pack it appears in this folder under the name pack.zip.

### Create a simple 2d item

Put the textures that you need in the textures directory of the pack folder. You can then ask Oraxen to generate the model by superposing the textures :

```yaml
  Pack:
    generate_model: true
    parent_model: "item/handheld"
    textures:
      - example_image1.png #png extension is not needed
      - example_image2.png
```

The `parent_model` field is required by Minecraft. It allows your item to inherit the rendering properties of an item template. Common values are `item/handheld` for weapons like swords, and `item/generated` for simple items or gems like amethysts.

You can also use an alternative way of declaring textures, especially nice when using block parent-models.\
```yaml
Pack:
  generate_model: true
  parent_model: "block/cube"
  textures:
    top: example_image.png
    side: example_image2.png
```

### Use a json model

Creating a json model can be time-consuming but it allows you to create really cool things (like 3d items). It is really easy to integrate a json model with Oraxen : put your textures in your textures directory and your model in your models directory (inside Oraxen/pack folder). Then you can ask Oraxen to put this model on one of your items:


ALWAYS USE LOWER CASE FOR MODEL AND TEXTURE NAMES. Upper case is n longer supported by minecraft vanilla since 1.11 (even though it still works for users using optifine).


```yaml
  Pack:
    generate_model: false
    model: example_model.json #json extension is not mandatory
```

#### ⚠️ Pro tips when you use a json model!

Usually the templates you get place the textures in a folder, to make sure, open the json file and look at the first few lines, you should find something similar:

```json
{
	"__comment": "Designed by HighBridRed for Oraxen",
	"textures": {
		"particle": "custom/bonesword_palette",
		"texture": "custom/bonesword_palette",
		"bonesword_palette": "custom/bonesword_palette"
	},
	...
```

As you can see, the path to the texture is **custom/bonesword\_palette**, that means minecraft will be looking for a texture called **bonesword\_palette.png** in the folder "custom", so you need to create this folder inside "Oraxen/pack/textures". You can also remove "custom/" and keep the texture name only, so you just have to drag and drop it inside the textures folder without creating a subfolder.

### Use a blocking json model (for shield)
If you want to use a custom model for a shield, you need to specific the blocking model which will be used when\
a user right click using your shield, hopefully this is easy with Oraxen. Here is what it can look like:

```yaml
  Pack:
    generate_model: false
    model: example_shield.json #json extension is not mandatory
    blocking_model: example_shield_blocking.json #json extension is not mandatory
```

### Use a pulling json model (for bows)
If you want to use a custom model for a shield, you need to specific the pulling model which will be\
used when a user right click using your bow, hopefully this is easy with Oraxen.\
Here is what it can look like:

```yaml
  Pack:
    generate_model: false
    model: default/combat_bow
    pulling_models:
      - default/combat_bow_pulling_0
      - default/combat_bow_pulling_1
      - default/combat_bow_pulling_2
```
This also works with pulling_textures if you only have texture files

### Use charged_model json model (for Crossbows)

```yml
  Pack:
    generate_model: false
    model: default/custom_bow
    pulling_models:
      - default/custom_bow_pulling_0
      - default/custom_bow_pulling_1
      - default/custom_bow_pulling_2
    charged_model: default/custom_bow_pulling_2
    firework_model: default/custom_bow_charged #not so necessary
```
This also works with charged_texture & firework_texture if you only have texture files

### Use cast_model json model (for fishing rods)

```yml
  Pack:
    generate_model: false
    model: default/fishing_rod
    cast_model: default/fishing_rod_cast
```
This also works with cast_texture if you only have texture files

### Use damaged_model json model (for different durability levels)
```yml
Pack:
  generate_model: false
  model: default/diamond_sword
  damaged_models:
    - default/diamond_sword_damaged1
    - default/diamond_sword_damaged2
    - default/diamond_sword_damaged3
```
This also works with damaged_textures if you only have texture files

### Use advanced model properties (Minecraft 1.21.4+)

Since Minecraft 1.21.4, you can customize additional item model properties:

**GUI Oversize**
Allows items to extend beyond slot boundaries in GUI when scaled up

```yaml
  Pack:
    generate_model: false
    model: item/large_item
    oversized_in_gui: true
```

When combined with a scaled display model like this, it creates an item that stands out prominently in inventory slots.

```json
{
	"parent": "item/handheld",
	"textures": {
		"layer0": "default/welcome_disk"
	},
	"display": {
		"gui": {
			"translation": [-2, -2, 0],
			"scale": [2, 2, 2]
		}
	}
}
```
See how oversized rendering looks in practice.
![model-definitions-showcase.png](/assets/model-definitions-showcase.png)

Here is an example use case provided by Wollodriin.
![model-definitions-use-case.png](/assets/model-definitions-use-case.png)

**Hand Swap Animation**
Controls whether hand animation plays when swapping items (only when switching from an item to another item)

```yaml
  Pack:
    generate_model: false
    model: item/example_item
    hand_animation_on_swap: false
```

**Hand Swap Animation Scale**
Adjusts the scale of the swap animation

```yaml
  Pack:
    generate_model: false
    model: item/example_item
    swap_animation_scale: 1.5
```

### Setting a specific Custom Model Data

You can manually specify a custom model data value:

```yaml
my_item:
  Pack:
    generate_model: true
    parent_model: "item/generated"
    textures:
      - my_texture
    custom_model_data: 452
```

On 1.21.4+, this value is used when `model_data_float_legacy` is enabled (see [Appearance Systems](#appearance-systems-1214) above). This lets you control which CMD value your item uses for compatibility with other plugins.

Commit message:

docs: rename model_data_float_legacy, add generate_predicates option
- Renamed model_data_float_legacy to model_data_float
- Added generate_predicates as separate option (false by default)
- Clarified that predicates are not needed on 1.21.4+
- Updated all references and examples

content/configuration/item-appearance.mdx, after:

---
description: How to customize your item appearance?
cover: >-
  https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/896841738621177896/966824489490976798/unknown.png
coverY: 0
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

Unlike most other plugins that allow you to create custom items, Oraxen supports the creation of a texture pack: you can define directly in the configuration what you want your items to look like and it will take care of generating the pack. For Minecraft, the appearance of each item is managed by a json file called the model. Oraxen can generate these files automatically.

### How Oraxen handles item models

Oraxen supports multiple systems for item appearance on 1.21.4+. **These systems can be combined** for maximum compatibility. Pre-1.21.4 servers always use legacy predicate overrides.

<Callout type="info">
**Default behavior:**
- **Pre-1.21.4**: Legacy predicates (forced, regardless of settings)
- **1.21.4+**: Item Model Definitions (`item_properties: true`)
</Callout>

### Appearance Systems (1.21.4+)

On 1.21.4+, you can enable multiple appearance systems in `settings.yml`:

```yaml
Pack:
  generation:
    appearance:
      item_properties: true        # Use item_model component (default)
      model_data_ids: false        # Use custom_model_data.strings with select
      model_data_float: false      # Use custom_model_data.floats with range_dispatch
      generate_predicates: false   # Generate legacy predicates (not needed on 1.21.4+)
```

**Available systems:**

| Setting | Pack Output | Item Component | Use Case |
|---------|-------------|----------------|----------|
| `item_properties` | `assets/oraxen/items/<id>.json` | `item_model` component | **Default.** Clean 1.21.4+ setup using item model definitions. |
| `model_data_ids` | `assets/minecraft/items/<material>.json` | `custom_model_data.strings[0]` | Uses `minecraft:select` with string keys (`oraxen:<item_id>`). Good for CMD-based workflows with stable identifiers. |
| `model_data_float` | `assets/minecraft/items/<material>.json` | `custom_model_data.floats[0]` | Uses `minecraft:range_dispatch` with numeric thresholds. Sets integer CMD on items. |
| `generate_predicates` | `assets/minecraft/models/item/*.json` | — | Generates legacy predicate overrides. **Not needed on 1.21.4+.** |

<Callout type="info">
**Which systems should I enable?**
- **`item_properties` only** — Best for new setups. Clean, modern, no collision with other plugins.
- **`item_properties` + `model_data_ids`** — Hybrid setup. Items have both `item_model` component AND `custom_model_data.strings[0]` set.
- **`model_data_float` + `generate_predicates`** — Full legacy compatibility with predicate overrides and integer CMD.
</Callout>

### Combining Systems

You can enable multiple systems to set multiple components on items:

```yaml
appearance:
  item_properties: true   # Sets item_model component
  model_data_ids: true    # Also sets custom_model_data.strings[0]
```

This gives you the best of both worlds: native 1.21.4+ rendering via `item_model`, plus `custom_model_data` strings for plugins that read them.

<Callout type="warning">
**Note:** `model_data_ids` and `model_data_float` cannot both be enabled—they write to the same pack file path (`assets/minecraft/items/*.json`). If both are enabled, `model_data_ids` takes priority for pack generation.
</Callout>

### Legacy Predicate Generation

The `generate_predicates` option generates legacy predicate overrides (`assets/minecraft/models/item/*.json`):

```yaml
appearance:
  model_data_float: true       # Use float-based CMD
  generate_predicates: true    # Also generate legacy predicates
```

<Callout type="info">
**When do I need `generate_predicates`?**

On 1.21.4+, Minecraft uses the new item definition system (`assets/minecraft/items/*.json`), so legacy predicate overrides are **not required** for the game client to display custom models.

Only enable `generate_predicates` if:
- External tools need to read legacy predicate JSON files
- You're using pack analysis tools that don't support 1.21.4+ item definitions
- You need backward compatibility with older resource pack formats
</Callout>

### Per-Item System Exclusions

You can exclude specific items from either system:

```yaml
my_item:
  Pack:
    generate_model: true
    textures:
      - my_texture
    exclude_from_predicates: false   # Don't add to predicate file
    exclude_from_item_model: false   # Don't generate item model definition
```

**Use cases:**
- `exclude_from_predicates: true` - Item only uses item_model (cleaner pack)
- `exclude_from_item_model: true` - Item only uses CMD (for plugin compatibility)

<details>
<summary>**Advanced**: How each system works</summary>

**Item Model Definitions (1.21.4+)**

Oraxen generates files in `assets/oraxen/items/` for each custom item. For example, an item with ID `my_sword` creates:

```
assets/oraxen/items/my_sword.json
```

This file defines which model to display. Items are then given an `item_model` component pointing to `oraxen:my_sword`.

If you need a custom namespace or model path, you can override this using the Components section:

```yaml
my_item:
  Components:
    item_model: "custom:weapons/legendary_sword"
```

This would reference `assets/custom/items/weapons/legendary_sword.json` in the resource pack.

**Predicates (Custom Model Data)**

Oraxen generates predicate overrides in the base item model files (e.g., `assets/minecraft/models/item/diamond_sword.json`). Each custom item gets a `custom_model_data` value that maps to its model.

</details>

### The pack folder

This folder (./plugins/Oraxen/pack) contains your pack. It works like a normal minecraft texture pack but simpler. You can drag your textures into the textures folder and your models into your models folder. You can also create sub-folders inside these folders to make it cleaner but it's not necessary. When the plugin generates the resource pack it appears in this folder under the name pack.zip.

### Create a simple 2d item

Put the textures that you need in the textures directory of the pack folder. You can then ask Oraxen to generate the model by superposing the textures :

```yaml
  Pack:
    generate_model: true
    parent_model: "item/handheld"
    textures:
      - example_image1.png #png extension is not needed
      - example_image2.png
```

The `parent_model` field is required by Minecraft. It allows your item to inherit the rendering properties of an item template. Common values are `item/handheld` for weapons like swords, and `item/generated` for simple items or gems like amethysts.

You can also use an alternative way of declaring textures, especially nice when using block parent-models.\
```yaml
Pack:
  generate_model: true
  parent_model: "block/cube"
  textures:
    top: example_image.png
    side: example_image2.png
```

### Use a json model

Creating a json model can be time-consuming but it allows you to create really cool things (like 3d items). It is really easy to integrate a json model with Oraxen : put your textures in your textures directory and your model in your models directory (inside Oraxen/pack folder). Then you can ask Oraxen to put this model on one of your items:


ALWAYS USE LOWER CASE FOR MODEL AND TEXTURE NAMES. Upper case is n longer supported by minecraft vanilla since 1.11 (even though it still works for users using optifine).


```yaml
  Pack:
    generate_model: false
    model: example_model.json #json extension is not mandatory
```

#### ⚠️ Pro tips when you use a json model!

Usually the templates you get place the textures in a folder, to make sure, open the json file and look at the first few lines, you should find something similar:

```json
{
	"__comment": "Designed by HighBridRed for Oraxen",
	"textures": {
		"particle": "custom/bonesword_palette",
		"texture": "custom/bonesword_palette",
		"bonesword_palette": "custom/bonesword_palette"
	},
	...
```

As you can see, the path to the texture is **custom/bonesword\_palette**, that means minecraft will be looking for a texture called **bonesword\_palette.png** in the folder "custom", so you need to create this folder inside "Oraxen/pack/textures". You can also remove "custom/" and keep the texture name only, so you just have to drag and drop it inside the textures folder without creating a subfolder.

### Use a blocking json model (for shield)
If you want to use a custom model for a shield, you need to specific the blocking model which will be used when\
a user right click using your shield, hopefully this is easy with Oraxen. Here is what it can look like:

```yaml
  Pack:
    generate_model: false
    model: example_shield.json #json extension is not mandatory
    blocking_model: example_shield_blocking.json #json extension is not mandatory
```

### Use a pulling json model (for bows)
If you want to use a custom model for a shield, you need to specific the pulling model which will be\
used when a user right click using your bow, hopefully this is easy with Oraxen.\
Here is what it can look like:

```yaml
  Pack:
    generate_model: false
    model: default/combat_bow
    pulling_models:
      - default/combat_bow_pulling_0
      - default/combat_bow_pulling_1
      - default/combat_bow_pulling_2
```
This also works with pulling_textures if you only have texture files

### Use charged_model json model (for Crossbows)

```yml
  Pack:
    generate_model: false
    model: default/custom_bow
    pulling_models:
      - default/custom_bow_pulling_0
      - default/custom_bow_pulling_1
      - default/custom_bow_pulling_2
    charged_model: default/custom_bow_pulling_2
    firework_model: default/custom_bow_charged #not so necessary
```
This also works with charged_texture & firework_texture if you only have texture files

### Use cast_model json model (for fishing rods)

```yml
  Pack:
    generate_model: false
    model: default/fishing_rod
    cast_model: default/fishing_rod_cast
```
This also works with cast_texture if you only have texture files

### Use damaged_model json model (for different durability levels)
```yml
Pack:
  generate_model: false
  model: default/diamond_sword
  damaged_models:
    - default/diamond_sword_damaged1
    - default/diamond_sword_damaged2
    - default/diamond_sword_damaged3
```
This also works with damaged_textures if you only have texture files

### Use advanced model properties (Minecraft 1.21.4+)

Since Minecraft 1.21.4, you can customize additional item model properties:

**GUI Oversize**
Allows items to extend beyond slot boundaries in GUI when scaled up

```yaml
  Pack:
    generate_model: false
    model: item/large_item
    oversized_in_gui: true
```

When combined with a scaled display model like this, it creates an item that stands out prominently in inventory slots.

```json
{
	"parent": "item/handheld",
	"textures": {
		"layer0": "default/welcome_disk"
	},
	"display": {
		"gui": {
			"translation": [-2, -2, 0],
			"scale": [2, 2, 2]
		}
	}
}
```
See how oversized rendering looks in practice.
![model-definitions-showcase.png](/assets/model-definitions-showcase.png)

Here is an example use case provided by Wollodriin.
![model-definitions-use-case.png](/assets/model-definitions-use-case.png)

**Hand Swap Animation**
Controls whether hand animation plays when swapping items (only when switching from an item to another item)

```yaml
  Pack:
    generate_model: false
    model: item/example_item
    hand_animation_on_swap: false
```

**Hand Swap Animation Scale**
Adjusts the scale of the swap animation

```yaml
  Pack:
    generate_model: false
    model: item/example_item
    swap_animation_scale: 1.5
```

### Setting a specific Custom Model Data

You can manually specify a custom model data value:

```yaml
my_item:
  Pack:
    generate_model: true
    parent_model: "item/generated"
    textures:
      - my_texture
    custom_model_data: 452
```

On 1.21.4+, this value is used when `model_data_float` is enabled (see [Appearance Systems](#appearance-systems-1214) above). This lets you control which CMD value your item uses for compatibility with other plugins.
