content/plugin-setup/plugin-settings.mdx, before:

---
description: Various options impacting the plugin in its generality
cover: >-
  https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/896841738621177896/966825582216237126/unknown.png
coverY: 0
---

# Plugin Settings

## Plugin

```yaml
Plugin:
  commands:
    repair:
      oraxen_durability_only: false # will not repair vanilla items if set to true
```

The plugin related options. Here you can configure how some things work. Should the repair only repair Oraxen items with an oraxen durability?

## Plugin Options

```yaml
Plugin:
  language: english # Language file to use
  debug: false # Enable verbose logging (NMS detection, pack generation, HUD loading, etc.)
  generation:
    default_assets: true # Generate default textures/models on first run
    default_configs: true # Generate default item configs on first run
  formatting: # Enable MiniMessage formatting in various contexts
    inventory_titles: true
    titles: true
    subtitles: true
    action_bar: true
    anvil: false
    signs: false
    chat: false
    books: false
```

### Debug Mode

When `debug: true` is enabled, Oraxen outputs additional informational messages to the console, including:
- NMS version detection
- Packet adapter selection
- Resource pack generation progress
- HUD loading details
- Shift font generation messages

These messages are hidden by default to keep console output clean.

## Item configurations

### How do the Oraxen configurations work?

First, Oraxen has several folders and 3 of these are to configure things, the first one is `Oraxen/glyphs/` and is to configure the Custom Font or Glyph, then
`Oraxen/items/` and is to configure and create your own configuration yaml and lastly `Oraxen/pack/` the target place where all the files like textures and models will be created,

## Pack

### Generation

```yaml
  generation:
    generate: true
    compression: BEST_COMPRESSION # see Deflater.class
    # protection will use several methods to make your pack impossible to extract
    # with usual tools (native windows unzip, 7zip, winrar, etc) without altering
    # its integrity. Be careful if you activate this option to not try to extract
    # the pack or you might fill your disk.
    protection: true
    comment: "The content of this texture pack
     \nbelongs to the owner of the Oraxen
     \nplugin and any complete or partial
     \nuse must comply with the terms and
     \nconditions of Oraxen."
    appearance:
      item_properties: true        # Use item_model component
      model_data_ids: false        # Use custom_model_data.strings with select
      model_data_float: false      # Use custom_model_data.floats with range_dispatch
      generate_predicates: false   # Generate legacy predicates (not needed on 1.21.4+)
```

This section allows you to configure the **generation** of the pack. The **compression** is configured to make the smallest zip possible by default. You can change the **comment** which is basically a watermark inside your zip.

#### Appearance Systems (1.21.4+)

The `appearance` section controls how item textures are applied. **Multiple systems can be enabled simultaneously** for maximum compatibility:

| Setting | Pack Output | Item Component | Description |
|---------|-------------|----------------|-------------|
| `item_properties` | `assets/oraxen/items/<id>.json` | `item_model` component | **Default.** Uses item model definitions with Oraxen ids (`oraxen:<item_id>`). |
| `model_data_ids` | `assets/minecraft/items/<material>.json` | `custom_model_data.strings[0]` | Uses `minecraft:select` dispatcher with string ids (`oraxen:<item_id>`). |
| `model_data_float` | `assets/minecraft/items/<material>.json` | `custom_model_data.floats[0]` | Uses `minecraft:range_dispatch` with numeric thresholds. |
| `generate_predicates` | `assets/minecraft/models/item/<material>.json` | — | Generates legacy predicate overrides. **Not needed on 1.21.4+.** |

**Version behavior:**
- **Pre-1.21.4**: Always uses legacy predicate overrides (regardless of settings)
- **1.21.4+**: Uses the enabled system(s)

**Common configurations:**
- `item_properties: true` only — Modern 1.21.4+ setup (default)
- `item_properties: true` + `model_data_ids: true` — Hybrid for plugins that read CMD strings
- `model_data_float: true` + `generate_predicates: true` — Full legacy compatibility

<Callout type="warning">
`model_data_ids` and `model_data_float` cannot both be enabled—they write to the same pack file path. If both are enabled, `model_data_ids` takes priority.
</Callout>

<Callout type="info">
**generate_predicates** is only needed if external tools read legacy predicate JSON files. On 1.21.4+, Minecraft uses the new item definition system, so predicates are not required for the game client.
</Callout>

See [Item Appearance](/creating-content/items/appearance#appearance-systems-1214) for detailed documentation and per-item options.

#### Protection

Protection will allow you to prevent players from stealing your textures easily. This won't make your pack heavier but if you enabled it. You **shall not** try to extract the generated zip, this could damage your disk.

![1 Exabyte (EB) = 1000000000 Gigabyte (GB)](/assets/size.png)

![Your operating system should prevent you from extracting in order to preserve your disk integrity](/assets/extraction.png)

### Upload

```yaml
    enabled: true
    type: polymath #transfer.sh or polymath
    polymath:
      server: atlas.oraxen.com # you can also host your own polymath instance
```

Oraxen integrates with Polymath (a custom web server written in Python especially to be compatible). You can download the source code [here](https://github.com/Th0rgal/Polymath/) and host it yourself or use the provided instance (atlas). You can also integrate with [your own custom hosting service](../developers/custom-hosting-service).

### Dispatch

This section allows you to easily perform actions depending on the resource pack status of your players.

You can send message (through a KICK, the chat, an actionbar or a title) and specify a delay and a period (between the different messages if you are using an actionbar or a title).

```yaml
receive:
  enabled: true

  loaded:
    actions:
      message:
        enabled: true
        # KICK / CHAT / ACTION_BAR / TITLE
        type: ACTION_BAR
        # Delay before the first message to appear, this is in seconds
        delay: 0
        # You only need a period if you send multiple messages of type ACTION_BAR or TITLE
        period: -1
        # Click and Hover elements are only available by using the CHAT type
        messages:
          - "<green><bold>ResourcePack successfully loaded!"

      # If you need to send commands
      commands:
        console: []
        player: []
        opped_player: []

  accepted:
    actions:
      message:
        enabled: true
        # KICK / CHAT / ACTION_BAR / TITLE
        type: TITLE
        # Delay before the first message to appear, this is in seconds
        delay: 0
        # You only need a period if you send multiple messages of type ACTION_BAR or TITLE
        period: 3
        # Click and Hover elements are only available by using the CHAT type
        messages:
          - "<green><bold>ResourcePack accepted!"
          - "Thank you"
      # If you need to send commands
      commands:
        console: []
        player: []
        opped_player: []

  denied:
    actions:
      message:
        enabled: true
        # KICK / CHAT / ACTION_BAR / TITLE
        type: CHAT
        # Delay before the first message to appear, this is in seconds
        delay: 0
        # You can put any value here because this is a CHAT message
        period: -1
        # Click and Hover elements are only available by using the CHAT type
        messages:
          - "<red>You refused the ResourcePack, but you need it in order to see the new items. Please </red><click:run_command:/oraxen pack><hover:show_text:\"<green>Display more informations\"><green><bold>CLICK HERE</bold></hover></click> <red>or type <bold>/o pack"
      # If you need to send commands
      commands:
        console: []
        player: []
        opped_player: []

  failed_download:
    actions:
      message:
        enabled: true
        # KICK / CHAT / ACTION_BAR / TITLE
        type: CHAT
        # Delay before the first message to appear, this is in seconds
        delay: 0
        # You can put any value here because this is a CHAT message
        period: -1
        # Click and Hover elements are only available by using the CHAT type
        messages:
          - "<red>You failed to download the ResourcePack, but you need it in order to see the new items. Please </red><click:run_command:/oraxen pack getpack><hover:show_text:\"<red>/!\\ loading the resourcepack from the game can cause lags\"><red><bold>CLICK HERE</bold></hover></click> <red>to retry or type <bold>/o pack</bold> and download it from the internet"
      # If you need to send commands
      commands:
        console: []
        player: []
        opped_player: []
```

## ConfigTools

```yaml
ConfigsTools:
  enable_configs_updater: true
  disable_automatic_model_data: false
  disable_automatic_glyph_code: false
  error_item:
    material: PODZOL
    excludeFromInventory: false # set to true if you don't want to display it inside inventory
    injectID: false
```

| Setting | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| `enable_configs_updater` | Automatically update config files when new options are added |
| `disable_automatic_model_data` | Prevent Oraxen from auto-assigning `custom_model_data` values |
| `disable_automatic_glyph_code` | Prevent Oraxen from auto-assigning unicode characters to glyphs |

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

<Callout type="warning">
**Grid Glyphs Warning:** If you enable `disable_automatic_glyph_code`, you **must** manually define the `chars` list for any [grid-based glyphs](/creating-content/glyphs-hud#grid-based-glyphs). Without manual character assignment, grid glyphs will receive new unicode characters on every server restart, breaking saved references. Single-character glyphs will reuse their existing `char` value, but grid glyphs have no such fallback.
</Callout>

## CustomArmor

```yaml
CustomArmor:
  disable_leather_repair: true
```

This option lets you disable leather being able to repair custom armors.
This means the only way to repair a custom armor set is other copies of said armor set.

## Misc

### hide_scoreboard_numbers

This option lets you hide the red scoreboard numbers.

```yaml
  hide_scoreboard_numbers: true
```

**Before:**
![](https://media.discordapp.net/attachments/758785982005903431/1043486669371887616/image.png)
**After:**
![](https://media.discordapp.net/attachments/758785982005903431/1043486615655432193/image.png)

### hide_scoreboard_background

This option lets you hide the scoreboard background.

```yaml
  hide_scoreboard_background: true
```

### hide_tablist_background

```yaml
  hide_tablist_background: true
```

This option lets you hide the tablist background (1.21+ only).

### reset_recipes

```yaml
reset_recipes: true
```

This option can cause bugs with other recipe plugins. If you notice bugs with a recipe plugin when reloading Oraxen, you can disable this option. If you do that, you will have to restart the server to refresh Oraxen recipes.

## Glyphs

```yaml
Glyphs:
  glyph_handler: vanilla # or nms - vanilla is recommended
  emoji_list_permission_only: false # Only show emojis player has permission for
  unicode_completions: true # Enable tab-completion for unicode characters
  chat_hover_text: true # Show glyph name on hover in chat
```

## Chat

```yaml
Chat:
  chat_handler: vanilla # or nms
```

## WorldEdit

Enable/disable WorldEdit integration for custom blocks.

```yaml
WorldEdit:
  noteblock_mechanic: true
  stringblock_mechanic: true
  furniture_mechanic: true
```

## ItemUpdater

Control how Oraxen updates existing items when configs change.

```yaml
ItemUpdater:
  update_items: true # Auto-update items in inventories
  update_items_on_reload: true # Update on /o reload
  override_renamed_items: false # Update even if player renamed the item
  override_item_lore: true # Override lore changes
```

## FurnitureUpdater

Control how Oraxen updates placed furniture.

```yaml
FurnitureUpdater:
  update_furniture: true
  update_on_reload: true
  update_on_load: true
  experimental_furniture_type_update: false # Update furniture entity type on config change
  experimental_fix_broken_furniture: false # Attempt to fix broken furniture
```

## CustomBlocks

```yaml
CustomBlocks:
  block_correction: true # Auto-correct block states
  use_legacy_noteblocks: false # Use old noteblock system (not recommended)
```

## Oraxen Inventory

```yaml
oraxen_inventory:
  main_menu_title: "<shift:-18><glyph:menu_items><shift:-193>"
  menu_rows: 6
  menu_layout:
    armors:
      slot: 1
      icon: emerald_chestplate
      title: "<main_menu_title><#362753><glyph:menu_items_overlay:colorable>"
    blocks:
      slot: 2
      icon: orax_ore
      title: "<main_menu_title><#EDCDEB><glyph:menu_items_overlay:colorable>"
    furniture:
      slot: 3
      icon: chair
      title: "<main_menu_title><#F2F2F2><glyph:menu_items_overlay:colorable>"
    flowers:
      slot: 4
      icon: dailily
      title: "<main_menu_title><#bf332c><glyph:menu_items_overlay:colorable>"
    hats:
      slot: 5
      icon: crown
      title: "<main_menu_title><#81B125><glyph:menu_items_overlay:colorable>"
    items:
      slot: 6
      icon: ruby
      title: "<main_menu_title><#DA2E45><glyph:menu_items_overlay:colorable>"
    mystical:
      slot: 7
      icon: legendary_hammer
      title: "<main_menu_title><#9AB2E4><glyph:menu_items_overlay:colorable>"
    plants:
      slot: 8
      icon: weed_leaf
      title: "<main_menu_title><#44C886><glyph:menu_items_overlay:colorable>"
    skins:
      slot: 9
      icon: wood_sword
      title: "<main_menu_title><#C48E40><glyph:menu_items_overlay:colorable>"
    tools:
      slot: 10
      icon: iron_serpe
      title: "<main_menu_title><#FFFFFF><glyph:menu_items_overlay:colorable>"
    weapons:
      slot: 11
      icon: energy_crystal_sword
      title: "<main_menu_title><#2FB6FF><glyph:menu_items_overlay:colorable>"
```

This allows you to configure an icon for every section of the Oraxen inventory. You can use Oraxen ids or Minecraft materials.

Commit message:

docs: Add auto_update_paper_config setting documentation
Documents the new setting that automatically updates paper-global.yml
to disable noteblock, tripwire, and chorus plant updates for custom blocks.

content/plugin-setup/plugin-settings.mdx, after:

---
description: Various options impacting the plugin in its generality
cover: >-
  https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/896841738621177896/966825582216237126/unknown.png
coverY: 0
---

# Plugin Settings

## Plugin

```yaml
Plugin:
  commands:
    repair:
      oraxen_durability_only: false # will not repair vanilla items if set to true
```

The plugin related options. Here you can configure how some things work. Should the repair only repair Oraxen items with an oraxen durability?

## Plugin Options

```yaml
Plugin:
  language: english # Language file to use
  debug: false # Enable verbose logging (NMS detection, pack generation, HUD loading, etc.)
  auto_update_paper_config: true # Automatically update paper-global.yml for custom blocks
  generation:
    default_assets: true # Generate default textures/models on first run
    default_configs: true # Generate default item configs on first run
  formatting: # Enable MiniMessage formatting in various contexts
    inventory_titles: true
    titles: true
    subtitles: true
    action_bar: true
    anvil: false
    signs: false
    chat: false
    books: false
```

### Debug Mode

When `debug: true` is enabled, Oraxen outputs additional informational messages to the console, including:
- NMS version detection
- Packet adapter selection
- Resource pack generation progress
- HUD loading details
- Shift font generation messages

These messages are hidden by default to keep console output clean.

### Auto Update Paper Config

When `auto_update_paper_config: true` (default), Oraxen automatically updates your `paper-global.yml` to disable block updates that interfere with custom blocks:
- `disable-noteblock-updates: true`
- `disable-tripwire-updates: true`
- `disable-chorus-plant-updates: true`

Set to `false` if you prefer to manage these settings manually. You can also override this with the JVM flag `-Doraxen.autoUpdatePaperConfig=false`.

## Item configurations

### How do the Oraxen configurations work?

First, Oraxen has several folders and 3 of these are to configure things, the first one is `Oraxen/glyphs/` and is to configure the Custom Font or Glyph, then
`Oraxen/items/` and is to configure and create your own configuration yaml and lastly `Oraxen/pack/` the target place where all the files like textures and models will be created,

## Pack

### Generation

```yaml
  generation:
    generate: true
    compression: BEST_COMPRESSION # see Deflater.class
    # protection will use several methods to make your pack impossible to extract
    # with usual tools (native windows unzip, 7zip, winrar, etc) without altering
    # its integrity. Be careful if you activate this option to not try to extract
    # the pack or you might fill your disk.
    protection: true
    comment: "The content of this texture pack
     \nbelongs to the owner of the Oraxen
     \nplugin and any complete or partial
     \nuse must comply with the terms and
     \nconditions of Oraxen."
    appearance:
      item_properties: true        # Use item_model component
      model_data_ids: false        # Use custom_model_data.strings with select
      model_data_float: false      # Use custom_model_data.floats with range_dispatch
      generate_predicates: false   # Generate legacy predicates (not needed on 1.21.4+)
```

This section allows you to configure the **generation** of the pack. The **compression** is configured to make the smallest zip possible by default. You can change the **comment** which is basically a watermark inside your zip.

#### Appearance Systems (1.21.4+)

The `appearance` section controls how item textures are applied. **Multiple systems can be enabled simultaneously** for maximum compatibility:

| Setting | Pack Output | Item Component | Description |
|---------|-------------|----------------|-------------|
| `item_properties` | `assets/oraxen/items/<id>.json` | `item_model` component | **Default.** Uses item model definitions with Oraxen ids (`oraxen:<item_id>`). |
| `model_data_ids` | `assets/minecraft/items/<material>.json` | `custom_model_data.strings[0]` | Uses `minecraft:select` dispatcher with string ids (`oraxen:<item_id>`). |
| `model_data_float` | `assets/minecraft/items/<material>.json` | `custom_model_data.floats[0]` | Uses `minecraft:range_dispatch` with numeric thresholds. |
| `generate_predicates` | `assets/minecraft/models/item/<material>.json` | — | Generates legacy predicate overrides. **Not needed on 1.21.4+.** |

**Version behavior:**
- **Pre-1.21.4**: Always uses legacy predicate overrides (regardless of settings)
- **1.21.4+**: Uses the enabled system(s)

**Common configurations:**
- `item_properties: true` only — Modern 1.21.4+ setup (default)
- `item_properties: true` + `model_data_ids: true` — Hybrid for plugins that read CMD strings
- `model_data_float: true` + `generate_predicates: true` — Full legacy compatibility

<Callout type="warning">
`model_data_ids` and `model_data_float` cannot both be enabled—they write to the same pack file path. If both are enabled, `model_data_ids` takes priority.
</Callout>

<Callout type="info">
**generate_predicates** is only needed if external tools read legacy predicate JSON files. On 1.21.4+, Minecraft uses the new item definition system, so predicates are not required for the game client.
</Callout>

See [Item Appearance](/creating-content/items/appearance#appearance-systems-1214) for detailed documentation and per-item options.

#### Protection

Protection will allow you to prevent players from stealing your textures easily. This won't make your pack heavier but if you enabled it. You **shall not** try to extract the generated zip, this could damage your disk.

![1 Exabyte (EB) = 1000000000 Gigabyte (GB)](/assets/size.png)

![Your operating system should prevent you from extracting in order to preserve your disk integrity](/assets/extraction.png)

### Upload

```yaml
    enabled: true
    type: polymath #transfer.sh or polymath
    polymath:
      server: atlas.oraxen.com # you can also host your own polymath instance
```

Oraxen integrates with Polymath (a custom web server written in Python especially to be compatible). You can download the source code [here](https://github.com/Th0rgal/Polymath/) and host it yourself or use the provided instance (atlas). You can also integrate with [your own custom hosting service](../developers/custom-hosting-service).

### Dispatch

This section allows you to easily perform actions depending on the resource pack status of your players.

You can send message (through a KICK, the chat, an actionbar or a title) and specify a delay and a period (between the different messages if you are using an actionbar or a title).

```yaml
receive:
  enabled: true

  loaded:
    actions:
      message:
        enabled: true
        # KICK / CHAT / ACTION_BAR / TITLE
        type: ACTION_BAR
        # Delay before the first message to appear, this is in seconds
        delay: 0
        # You only need a period if you send multiple messages of type ACTION_BAR or TITLE
        period: -1
        # Click and Hover elements are only available by using the CHAT type
        messages:
          - "<green><bold>ResourcePack successfully loaded!"

      # If you need to send commands
      commands:
        console: []
        player: []
        opped_player: []

  accepted:
    actions:
      message:
        enabled: true
        # KICK / CHAT / ACTION_BAR / TITLE
        type: TITLE
        # Delay before the first message to appear, this is in seconds
        delay: 0
        # You only need a period if you send multiple messages of type ACTION_BAR or TITLE
        period: 3
        # Click and Hover elements are only available by using the CHAT type
        messages:
          - "<green><bold>ResourcePack accepted!"
          - "Thank you"
      # If you need to send commands
      commands:
        console: []
        player: []
        opped_player: []

  denied:
    actions:
      message:
        enabled: true
        # KICK / CHAT / ACTION_BAR / TITLE
        type: CHAT
        # Delay before the first message to appear, this is in seconds
        delay: 0
        # You can put any value here because this is a CHAT message
        period: -1
        # Click and Hover elements are only available by using the CHAT type
        messages:
          - "<red>You refused the ResourcePack, but you need it in order to see the new items. Please </red><click:run_command:/oraxen pack><hover:show_text:\"<green>Display more informations\"><green><bold>CLICK HERE</bold></hover></click> <red>or type <bold>/o pack"
      # If you need to send commands
      commands:
        console: []
        player: []
        opped_player: []

  failed_download:
    actions:
      message:
        enabled: true
        # KICK / CHAT / ACTION_BAR / TITLE
        type: CHAT
        # Delay before the first message to appear, this is in seconds
        delay: 0
        # You can put any value here because this is a CHAT message
        period: -1
        # Click and Hover elements are only available by using the CHAT type
        messages:
          - "<red>You failed to download the ResourcePack, but you need it in order to see the new items. Please </red><click:run_command:/oraxen pack getpack><hover:show_text:\"<red>/!\\ loading the resourcepack from the game can cause lags\"><red><bold>CLICK HERE</bold></hover></click> <red>to retry or type <bold>/o pack</bold> and download it from the internet"
      # If you need to send commands
      commands:
        console: []
        player: []
        opped_player: []
```

## ConfigTools

```yaml
ConfigsTools:
  enable_configs_updater: true
  disable_automatic_model_data: false
  disable_automatic_glyph_code: false
  error_item:
    material: PODZOL
    excludeFromInventory: false # set to true if you don't want to display it inside inventory
    injectID: false
```

| Setting | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| `enable_configs_updater` | Automatically update config files when new options are added |
| `disable_automatic_model_data` | Prevent Oraxen from auto-assigning `custom_model_data` values |
| `disable_automatic_glyph_code` | Prevent Oraxen from auto-assigning unicode characters to glyphs |

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

<Callout type="warning">
**Grid Glyphs Warning:** If you enable `disable_automatic_glyph_code`, you **must** manually define the `chars` list for any [grid-based glyphs](/creating-content/glyphs-hud#grid-based-glyphs). Without manual character assignment, grid glyphs will receive new unicode characters on every server restart, breaking saved references. Single-character glyphs will reuse their existing `char` value, but grid glyphs have no such fallback.
</Callout>

## CustomArmor

```yaml
CustomArmor:
  disable_leather_repair: true
```

This option lets you disable leather being able to repair custom armors.
This means the only way to repair a custom armor set is other copies of said armor set.

## Misc

### hide_scoreboard_numbers

This option lets you hide the red scoreboard numbers.

```yaml
  hide_scoreboard_numbers: true
```

**Before:**
![](https://media.discordapp.net/attachments/758785982005903431/1043486669371887616/image.png)
**After:**
![](https://media.discordapp.net/attachments/758785982005903431/1043486615655432193/image.png)

### hide_scoreboard_background

This option lets you hide the scoreboard background.

```yaml
  hide_scoreboard_background: true
```

### hide_tablist_background

```yaml
  hide_tablist_background: true
```

This option lets you hide the tablist background (1.21+ only).

### reset_recipes

```yaml
reset_recipes: true
```

This option can cause bugs with other recipe plugins. If you notice bugs with a recipe plugin when reloading Oraxen, you can disable this option. If you do that, you will have to restart the server to refresh Oraxen recipes.

## Glyphs

```yaml
Glyphs:
  glyph_handler: vanilla # or nms - vanilla is recommended
  emoji_list_permission_only: false # Only show emojis player has permission for
  unicode_completions: true # Enable tab-completion for unicode characters
  chat_hover_text: true # Show glyph name on hover in chat
```

## Chat

```yaml
Chat:
  chat_handler: vanilla # or nms
```

## WorldEdit

Enable/disable WorldEdit integration for custom blocks.

```yaml
WorldEdit:
  noteblock_mechanic: true
  stringblock_mechanic: true
  furniture_mechanic: true
```

## ItemUpdater

Control how Oraxen updates existing items when configs change.

```yaml
ItemUpdater:
  update_items: true # Auto-update items in inventories
  update_items_on_reload: true # Update on /o reload
  override_renamed_items: false # Update even if player renamed the item
  override_item_lore: true # Override lore changes
```

## FurnitureUpdater

Control how Oraxen updates placed furniture.

```yaml
FurnitureUpdater:
  update_furniture: true
  update_on_reload: true
  update_on_load: true
  experimental_furniture_type_update: false # Update furniture entity type on config change
  experimental_fix_broken_furniture: false # Attempt to fix broken furniture
```

## CustomBlocks

```yaml
CustomBlocks:
  block_correction: true # Auto-correct block states
  use_legacy_noteblocks: false # Use old noteblock system (not recommended)
```

## Oraxen Inventory

```yaml
oraxen_inventory:
  main_menu_title: "<shift:-18><glyph:menu_items><shift:-193>"
  menu_rows: 6
  menu_layout:
    armors:
      slot: 1
      icon: emerald_chestplate
      title: "<main_menu_title><#362753><glyph:menu_items_overlay:colorable>"
    blocks:
      slot: 2
      icon: orax_ore
      title: "<main_menu_title><#EDCDEB><glyph:menu_items_overlay:colorable>"
    furniture:
      slot: 3
      icon: chair
      title: "<main_menu_title><#F2F2F2><glyph:menu_items_overlay:colorable>"
    flowers:
      slot: 4
      icon: dailily
      title: "<main_menu_title><#bf332c><glyph:menu_items_overlay:colorable>"
    hats:
      slot: 5
      icon: crown
      title: "<main_menu_title><#81B125><glyph:menu_items_overlay:colorable>"
    items:
      slot: 6
      icon: ruby
      title: "<main_menu_title><#DA2E45><glyph:menu_items_overlay:colorable>"
    mystical:
      slot: 7
      icon: legendary_hammer
      title: "<main_menu_title><#9AB2E4><glyph:menu_items_overlay:colorable>"
    plants:
      slot: 8
      icon: weed_leaf
      title: "<main_menu_title><#44C886><glyph:menu_items_overlay:colorable>"
    skins:
      slot: 9
      icon: wood_sword
      title: "<main_menu_title><#C48E40><glyph:menu_items_overlay:colorable>"
    tools:
      slot: 10
      icon: iron_serpe
      title: "<main_menu_title><#FFFFFF><glyph:menu_items_overlay:colorable>"
    weapons:
      slot: 11
      icon: energy_crystal_sword
      title: "<main_menu_title><#2FB6FF><glyph:menu_items_overlay:colorable>"
```

This allows you to configure an icon for every section of the Oraxen inventory. You can use Oraxen ids or Minecraft materials.
