content/compatibility/world-generators/index.mdx, before:

---
cover: >-
  https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/896841738621177896/966832536263204914/unknown.png
coverY: 0
---

# World Generators

Oraxen doesn't natively support ores generation, instead you can use world generators like [Iris World Generator](/compatibility/world-generators/iris-world-generator) or [Custom Ore Generator](/compatibility/world-generators/custom-ore-generator).

For discontinued world generators (EpicWorldGenerator, RealisticWorldGenerator), see the [Archives](/compatibility/archives) section.

## Find your ores' custom block data

For most custom world generators you need to find your custom block data. This can be achieved using any minecraft version on a server running Oraxen. Just place your block (you can get it from the oraxen inventory of give it to yourself through a command) and press F3 while looking at the block you want to add.

### For note_block based blocks (default)

![A noteblock based custom block](/assets/world-generators-noteblock-based.png)

### For mushroom based blocks

![A mushroom based custom block](/assets/amethyst.png)

Commit message:

docs: Add Iris, player protection, and emoji permission docs (#36)
* docs: Add documentation for Iris compatibility, player protection, and emoji permissions

Add documentation for three merged PRs:
- PR #1741: Iris World Generator first-class integration with native data provider
- PR #1743: Player protection during resource pack loading (movement/damage prevention)
- PR #1744: Fixed emoji list permission filtering with proper hover text indicators

Also improved PluginFileTree component styling to match Nextra's design language with subtle backgrounds, hover effects, and conditional icon visibility. Added interactive file tree to Understanding the Basics page.

* fix: Use React state for info icon hover effect

The previous DOM manipulation approach (e.target.style.color) didn't work
because the FaInfoCircle child had its own inline style that took precedence.
Now using isIconHovered state to control the icon color properly.

* fix: Remove duplicate constant declarations in PluginFileTree

- Fixed initial containerWidth state to use MAX_WIDTH_PX (680) instead of hardcoded 720
- Removed duplicate MAX_WIDTH_RATIO and MAX_WIDTH_PX declarations that were causing redeclaration warnings

* fix: Use container's actual width for Tree component

Removed MAX_WIDTH_RATIO calculation that was causing the Tree to be
narrower than its container. Now using containerRef.current.clientWidth
directly to get the actual container width.

content/compatibility/world-generators/index.mdx, after:

---
cover: >-
  https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/896841738621177896/966832536263204914/unknown.png
coverY: 0
---

# World Generators

Oraxen doesn't natively support ore generation. Instead, you can use world generators to spawn custom ores and blocks in your world.

## Recommended: Iris World Generator

[Iris World Generator](/compatibility/world-generators/iris-world-generator) features **first-class Oraxen integration**. Oraxen automatically registers as an external data provider with Iris, allowing you to reference custom blocks using the `oraxen:block_id` syntax directly in your Iris configurations - no additional setup required.

## Alternative: Custom Ore Generator

[Custom Ore Generator](/compatibility/world-generators/custom-ore-generator) is a free alternative for adding custom ores to your world.

For discontinued world generators (EpicWorldGenerator, RealisticWorldGenerator), see the [Archives](/compatibility/archives) section.

## Find your ores' custom block data

For most custom world generators you need to find your custom block data. This can be achieved using any minecraft version on a server running Oraxen. Just place your block (you can get it from the oraxen inventory of give it to yourself through a command) and press F3 while looking at the block you want to add.

### For note_block based blocks (default)

![A noteblock based custom block](/assets/world-generators-noteblock-based.png)

### For mushroom based blocks

![A mushroom based custom block](/assets/amethyst.png)
