content/compatibility/world-generators/iris-world-generator.mdx, before:

---
description: Iris is a paid world generator
cover: >-
  https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/896841738621177896/966832733290627072/unknown.png
coverY: 0
---

# Iris World Generator

IrisWorldGenerator allows you to easily generate a really cool looking world. This supports custom BlockDatas, so you can add custom minerals created with Oraxen to be generated like diamond for example.
Spigot Link: [https://www.spigotmc.org/resources/iris-world-gen-the-dimension-engine.84586/](https://www.spigotmc.org/resources/iris-world-gen-the-dimension-engine.84586/)

## How to create custom ores

In this example we assume that you have added a block (an amethyst ore for example) following [this example](/creating-content/blocks/noteblock#ores) to your oraxen configuration.

### 1) Locate your dimension configuration

Go to `Iris/pack/YOUR_PACK_NAME/dimensions/YOUR_DIMENSION_NAME.json`, by default this should be: `Iris/packs/overworld/dimensions/overworld.json`

Then, open the file (or the vscode workspace to enjoy the cool vscode integration).

### 2) Add your ore!

Locate this part of the config:

```yaml
    "ORES": "All settings in regards to deposits. Contains the ores spawning in your world.",
    "deposits": [
        {
            "minHeight": 19,
            "maxPerChunk": 4,
            "maxHeight": 150,
            "minPerChunk": 1,
            "minSize": 25,
            "maxSize": 25,
            "palette": [{"block": "granite"}],
            "varience": 2
        },
```

Add your own config using the custom ore properties found at step one. For example:

```yaml
    {
      "minHeight": 2,
      "maxPerChunk": 2,
      "maxHeight": 30,
      "minPerChunk": 0,
      "minSize": 3,
      "maxSize": 6,
      "palette": [{ "block": "oraxen:amethyst_ore" }],
      "varience": 5
    },
```

You can now save the file, reset your world and restart!

Commit message:

docs: Add documentation for Iris compatibility, player protection, and emoji permissions
Add documentation for three merged PRs:
- PR #1741: Iris World Generator first-class integration with native data provider
- PR #1743: Player protection during resource pack loading (movement/damage prevention)
- PR #1744: Fixed emoji list permission filtering with proper hover text indicators

Also improved PluginFileTree component styling to match Nextra's design language with subtle backgrounds, hover effects, and conditional icon visibility. Added interactive file tree to Understanding the Basics page.

content/compatibility/world-generators/iris-world-generator.mdx, after:

---
description: Iris is a paid world generator with first-class Oraxen integration
cover: >-
  https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/896841738621177896/966832733290627072/unknown.png
coverY: 0
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

# Iris World Generator

Iris World Generator allows you to easily generate beautiful worlds with custom terrain, biomes, and structures. It features **first-class Oraxen integration**, allowing you to use custom blocks and items from Oraxen directly in your world generation configurations.

<Callout type="info">
  Oraxen automatically registers as an external data provider with Iris. Just install both plugins and the integration works out of the box - no additional setup required.
</Callout>

**Spigot Link:** [Iris World Generator](https://www.spigotmc.org/resources/iris-world-gen-the-dimension-engine.84586/)

## Using Oraxen blocks in Iris

You can reference any Oraxen custom block using the `oraxen:` prefix followed by your block's ID. Iris will automatically resolve these references through Oraxen's data provider.

```
oraxen:your_block_id
```

## How to create custom ores

In this example we assume that you have added a block (an amethyst ore for example) following [this example](/creating-content/blocks/noteblock#ores) to your oraxen configuration.

### 1) Locate your dimension configuration

Go to `Iris/pack/YOUR_PACK_NAME/dimensions/YOUR_DIMENSION_NAME.json`, by default this should be: `Iris/packs/overworld/dimensions/overworld.json`

Then, open the file (or the vscode workspace to enjoy the cool vscode integration).

### 2) Add your ore!

Locate this part of the config:

```yaml
    "ORES": "All settings in regards to deposits. Contains the ores spawning in your world.",
    "deposits": [
        {
            "minHeight": 19,
            "maxPerChunk": 4,
            "maxHeight": 150,
            "minPerChunk": 1,
            "minSize": 25,
            "maxSize": 25,
            "palette": [{"block": "granite"}],
            "varience": 2
        },
```

Add your own config using the custom ore properties found at step one. For example:

```yaml
    {
      "minHeight": 2,
      "maxPerChunk": 2,
      "maxHeight": 30,
      "minPerChunk": 0,
      "minSize": 3,
      "maxSize": 6,
      "palette": [{ "block": "oraxen:amethyst_ore" }],
      "varience": 5
    },
```

You can now save the file, reset your world and restart!
