content/mechanics/all-mechanics/combat.mdx, before:

---
description: Combat mechanics for weapons and spells
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

# Combat Mechanics

<Callout type="info">
All spell-based combat mechanics (Thor, EnergyBlast, WitherSkull, Fireball) support a `charges` option that limits the number of uses before the item is consumed. Set to `-1` or omit for unlimited uses.
</Callout>

### Spear Lunge

<Callout type="info">
Requires Minecraft 1.21.4+ for model swapping during charge animation.
</Callout>

A charged attack mechanic that transforms your weapon into a devastating lunge. Hold right-click to charge, then release or left-click to thrust forward, dealing damage to enemies in your path.

#### Features

- **Model Animation**: The weapon model visually transitions during charging (requires 1.21.4+)
- **Smooth Animation**: Optional intermediate frames for fluid charging animations
- **Multi-Target**: Can hit multiple enemies in a cone with configurable piercing
- **Movement Slowdown**: Configurable speed reduction while charging
- **Full Customization**: Particles, sounds, damage, range, and knockback are all configurable

#### Per item configuration

```yaml
my_spear:
  material: IRON_SWORD
  displayname: "<gradient:#gold:#yellow>Battle Spear"
  Pack:
    generate_model: false
    model: default/spear_inactive  # Base model (resting position)
  Mechanics:
    spear_lunge:
      active_model: default/spear_active  # Model when fully charged (thrust position)
      intermediate_models:                 # Optional animation frames during charge
        - default/spear_frame0
        - default/spear_frame1
      smooth_frames: 2          # Number of intermediate frames to use
      charge_ticks: 20          # Ticks to fully charge (20 = 1 second)
      lunge_velocity: 0.8       # Forward velocity on lunge release
      max_range: 5.0            # Hit detection range in blocks
      damage: 10.0              # Damage at full charge
      knockback: 0.8            # Knockback applied to targets
      min_charge_percent: 0.25  # Minimum charge needed to attack (25%)
      charge_slowdown: 0.5      # Movement slowdown while charging (0.0-1.0)
      max_hold_ticks: 60        # Max hold time before auto-cancel (ticks)
      max_targets: 3            # Maximum enemies hit per lunge
      particles:
        enabled: true
        charge: CRIT            # Particle during charging
        lunge: SWEEP_ATTACK     # Particle on lunge
        hit: DAMAGE_INDICATOR   # Particle on enemy hit
      sounds:
        enabled: true
        charge: ITEM_TRIDENT_RIPTIDE_1
        lunge: ENTITY_PLAYER_ATTACK_SWEEP
        hit: ENTITY_PLAYER_ATTACK_STRONG
```

#### Configuration Options

| Option | Default | Description |
|--------|---------|-------------|
| `active_model` | - | Model path when fully charged (required for animation) |
| `intermediate_models` | - | List of model paths for smooth charge animation |
| `smooth_frames` | 0 | Number of animation frames to use during charge |
| `charge_ticks` | 12 | Ticks to reach full charge (20 ticks = 1 second) |
| `lunge_velocity` | 0.6 | Forward velocity multiplier on lunge |
| `max_range` | 3.5 | Maximum hit detection range in blocks |
| `damage` | 6.0 | Base damage at full charge |
| `knockback` | 0.5 | Knockback strength applied to targets |
| `min_charge_percent` | 0.3 | Minimum charge (0.0-1.0) needed to attack |
| `charge_slowdown` | 0.4 | Movement speed reduction while charging (0.0 = none, 1.0 = frozen) |
| `max_hold_ticks` | 60 | Maximum ticks to hold charge before auto-cancel |
| `max_targets` | 1 | Maximum number of enemies hit per lunge |

#### How It Works

1. **Start Charging**: Hold right-click with the spear to begin charging
2. **Visual Feedback**: The weapon model animates through frames, particles spawn, and your movement slows
3. **Attack**: Release right-click or left-click when charged to lunge forward
4. **Damage**: Enemies in a cone in front of you take damage scaled by charge percentage
5. **Cooldown**: After attacking, there's a brief cooldown before you can charge again

<Callout type="warning">
If you hold the charge too long (past `max_hold_ticks`), the attack will auto-cancel and revert to the inactive model without dealing damage. This prevents players from walking around indefinitely with a charged weapon.
</Callout>

### Thor

Have you ever dreamed of being able to throw lightning bolts? This is for you.

#### Per item configuration

```yaml
Mechanics:
  thor:
    lightning_bolts_amount: 5
    random_location_variation: 1.5
    delay: 20000 # in milliseconds (20000ms = 20s)
    charges: -1 # optional: number of uses before item is consumed (-1 for infinite)
```

* **lightning\_bolts\_amount**: how many lightning bolts will be spawned?
* **random\_location\_variation**: the random variation range between bolts (in blocks)
* **delay**: delay between usage in milliseconds (1000ms = 1s)

### Lifeleech

Want to steal hearts to your opponents when you hit them?

#### Per item configuration

```yaml
Mechanics:
  lifeleech:
    amount: 2 # the amount of 1/2 hearts that you'll steal to your opponents
```

### Bleeding

Makes your enemies bleed for a specific amount of time.

#### Per item configuration

```yaml
Mechanics:
  bleeding:
    chance: 0.3 # 30% chance to apply bleeding on hit
    duration: 100 # bleeding lasts for 100 ticks (5 seconds)
    damage_per_interval: 0.5 # deals 0.5 damage (1/4 heart) per interval
    interval: 20 # damage is applied every 20 ticks (1 second)
```

* **chance**: the chance of applying bleeding on hit 
* **duration**: the duration of bleeding in ticks (20 ticks = 1 second)
* **damage\_per\_interval**: the damage dealt per interval
* **interval**: the interval between damages in ticks (20 ticks = 1 second)

### EnergyBlast

EnergyBlast is a very cool mechanic that creates a cone of particles to attack entities.

#### Per item configuration

```yaml
Mechanics:
  energyblast:
    delay: 20000
    length: 5
    damage: 10.0
    charges: -1 # optional: number of uses before item is consumed (-1 for infinite)
    particle:
      type: REDSTONE # only REDSTONE particle can change size and color
      size: 1
      color:
        red: 0
        green: 255
        blue: 255
```

### Witherskull

Send wither skulls when right clicking!

#### Per item configuration

```yaml
Mechanics:
  witherskull:
    charged: false # a charged skull can break blocks
    delay: 3000 # in milliseconds (3000ms = 3s)
    charges: -1 # optional: number of uses before item is consumed (-1 for infinite)
```

### Fireball

Launch fireballs when right clicking! The fireball explodes on impact.

#### Per item configuration

```yaml
Mechanics:
  fireball:
    delay: 3000 # in milliseconds (3000ms = 3s)
    yield: 2.0 # explosion power
    speed: 1.0 # projectile speed
    charges: 5 # optional: number of uses before item is consumed (-1 for infinite)
```

Commit message:

docs: add missing spear_lunge options (min_damage, hitbox_radius)
- Added min_damage option for damage scaling at low charge
- Added hitbox_radius option for ray trace width
- Fixed "cone" to "ray" in description (matches actual implementation)

content/mechanics/all-mechanics/combat.mdx, after:

---
description: Combat mechanics for weapons and spells
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

# Combat Mechanics

<Callout type="info">
All spell-based combat mechanics (Thor, EnergyBlast, WitherSkull, Fireball) support a `charges` option that limits the number of uses before the item is consumed. Set to `-1` or omit for unlimited uses.
</Callout>

### Spear Lunge

<Callout type="info">
Requires Minecraft 1.21.4+ for model swapping during charge animation.
</Callout>

A charged attack mechanic that transforms your weapon into a devastating lunge. Hold right-click to charge, then release or left-click to thrust forward, dealing damage to enemies in your path.

#### Features

- **Model Animation**: The weapon model visually transitions during charging (requires 1.21.4+)
- **Smooth Animation**: Optional intermediate frames for fluid charging animations
- **Multi-Target**: Can hit multiple enemies along the lunge path with configurable piercing
- **Movement Slowdown**: Configurable speed reduction while charging
- **Full Customization**: Particles, sounds, damage, range, and knockback are all configurable

#### Per item configuration

```yaml
my_spear:
  material: IRON_SWORD
  displayname: "<gradient:#gold:#yellow>Battle Spear"
  Pack:
    generate_model: false
    model: default/spear_inactive  # Base model (resting position)
  Mechanics:
    spear_lunge:
      active_model: default/spear_active  # Model when fully charged (thrust position)
      intermediate_models:                 # Optional animation frames during charge
        - default/spear_frame0
        - default/spear_frame1
      smooth_frames: 2          # Number of intermediate frames to use
      charge_ticks: 20          # Ticks to fully charge (20 = 1 second)
      lunge_velocity: 0.8       # Forward velocity on lunge release
      max_range: 5.0            # Hit detection range in blocks
      damage: 10.0              # Damage at full charge
      min_damage: 2.0           # Minimum damage at lowest charge
      knockback: 0.8            # Knockback applied to targets
      hitbox_radius: 0.5        # Ray trace width for hit detection
      min_charge_percent: 0.25  # Minimum charge needed to attack (25%)
      charge_slowdown: 0.5      # Movement slowdown while charging (0.0-1.0)
      max_hold_ticks: 60        # Max hold time before auto-cancel (ticks)
      max_targets: 3            # Maximum enemies hit per lunge
      particles:
        enabled: true
        charge: CRIT            # Particle during charging
        lunge: SWEEP_ATTACK     # Particle on lunge
        hit: DAMAGE_INDICATOR   # Particle on enemy hit
      sounds:
        enabled: true
        charge: ITEM_TRIDENT_RIPTIDE_1
        lunge: ENTITY_PLAYER_ATTACK_SWEEP
        hit: ENTITY_PLAYER_ATTACK_STRONG
```

#### Configuration Options

| Option | Default | Description |
|--------|---------|-------------|
| `active_model` | - | Model path when fully charged (required for animation) |
| `intermediate_models` | - | List of model paths for smooth charge animation |
| `smooth_frames` | 0 | Number of animation frames to use during charge |
| `charge_ticks` | 12 | Ticks to reach full charge (20 ticks = 1 second) |
| `lunge_velocity` | 0.6 | Forward velocity multiplier on lunge |
| `max_range` | 3.5 | Maximum hit detection range in blocks |
| `damage` | 6.0 | Base damage at full charge |
| `min_damage` | 0.0 | Minimum damage at lowest valid charge (scales to `damage` at full charge) |
| `knockback` | 0.5 | Knockback strength applied to targets |
| `hitbox_radius` | 0.5 | Ray trace width for hit detection (higher = easier to hit off-center targets, max 5.0) |
| `min_charge_percent` | 0.3 | Minimum charge (0.0-1.0) needed to attack |
| `charge_slowdown` | 0.4 | Movement speed reduction while charging (0.0 = none, 1.0 = frozen) |
| `max_hold_ticks` | 60 | Maximum ticks to hold charge before auto-cancel |
| `max_targets` | 1 | Maximum number of enemies hit per lunge |

#### How It Works

1. **Start Charging**: Hold right-click with the spear to begin charging
2. **Visual Feedback**: The weapon model animates through frames, particles spawn, and your movement slows
3. **Attack**: Release right-click or left-click when charged to lunge forward
4. **Damage**: Enemies along the ray in front of you take damage scaled by charge percentage (from `min_damage` to `damage`)
5. **Cooldown**: After attacking, there's a brief cooldown before you can charge again

<Callout type="warning">
If you hold the charge too long (past `max_hold_ticks`), the attack will auto-cancel and revert to the inactive model without dealing damage. This prevents players from walking around indefinitely with a charged weapon.
</Callout>

### Thor

Have you ever dreamed of being able to throw lightning bolts? This is for you.

#### Per item configuration

```yaml
Mechanics:
  thor:
    lightning_bolts_amount: 5
    random_location_variation: 1.5
    delay: 20000 # in milliseconds (20000ms = 20s)
    charges: -1 # optional: number of uses before item is consumed (-1 for infinite)
```

* **lightning\_bolts\_amount**: how many lightning bolts will be spawned?
* **random\_location\_variation**: the random variation range between bolts (in blocks)
* **delay**: delay between usage in milliseconds (1000ms = 1s)

### Lifeleech

Want to steal hearts to your opponents when you hit them?

#### Per item configuration

```yaml
Mechanics:
  lifeleech:
    amount: 2 # the amount of 1/2 hearts that you'll steal to your opponents
```

### Bleeding

Makes your enemies bleed for a specific amount of time.

#### Per item configuration

```yaml
Mechanics:
  bleeding:
    chance: 0.3 # 30% chance to apply bleeding on hit
    duration: 100 # bleeding lasts for 100 ticks (5 seconds)
    damage_per_interval: 0.5 # deals 0.5 damage (1/4 heart) per interval
    interval: 20 # damage is applied every 20 ticks (1 second)
```

* **chance**: the chance of applying bleeding on hit 
* **duration**: the duration of bleeding in ticks (20 ticks = 1 second)
* **damage\_per\_interval**: the damage dealt per interval
* **interval**: the interval between damages in ticks (20 ticks = 1 second)

### EnergyBlast

EnergyBlast is a very cool mechanic that creates a cone of particles to attack entities.

#### Per item configuration

```yaml
Mechanics:
  energyblast:
    delay: 20000
    length: 5
    damage: 10.0
    charges: -1 # optional: number of uses before item is consumed (-1 for infinite)
    particle:
      type: REDSTONE # only REDSTONE particle can change size and color
      size: 1
      color:
        red: 0
        green: 255
        blue: 255
```

### Witherskull

Send wither skulls when right clicking!

#### Per item configuration

```yaml
Mechanics:
  witherskull:
    charged: false # a charged skull can break blocks
    delay: 3000 # in milliseconds (3000ms = 3s)
    charges: -1 # optional: number of uses before item is consumed (-1 for infinite)
```

### Fireball

Launch fireballs when right clicking! The fireball explodes on impact.

#### Per item configuration

```yaml
Mechanics:
  fireball:
    delay: 3000 # in milliseconds (3000ms = 3s)
    yield: 2.0 # explosion power
    speed: 1.0 # projectile speed
    charges: 5 # optional: number of uses before item is consumed (-1 for infinite)
```
