content/mechanics/all-mechanics/misc.mdx, before:

---
description: Miscellaneous mechanics for items
---

# Miscellaneous Mechanics

### Custom Food
This mechanic allows you to set food-related properties for any food item.  
This means you can create foods which refill different amounts of hunger and saturation.  
It also lets you set a replacement item for when the food has been consumed.  

Below is a config example of the mechanic-part for a custom food:


On 1.20.5+ use the new [Food-Component](/configuration/items-advanced/components) instead


```yaml
Mechanics:
  food:
    hunger: 10
    saturation: 10
    replacement:
      oraxen_item: any_oraxen_itemid      # Can also be minecraft_type or crucible_item
    effect_probability: 0.35              # The probability of the effect being applied, default is 1.0 / 100%
    effects:
      hunger:                             # Must be a valid potion effect, can find a list https://hub.spigotmc.org/javadocs/bukkit/org/bukkit/potion/PotionEffectType.html 
        amplifier: 1                      # If not set, defaults to 0
        duration: 20                      # Duration in seconds. If not set, defaults to 1 second
        is_ambient: true                  # If not set, defaults to true
        has_particles: true               # If not set, defaults to true
        has_icon: true                    # If not set, defaults to true
      night_vision:
        duration: 60
```

### Backpack
This allows you to turn any item into a backpack.\


This mechanic might cause duplication issues!\
If you find any please open a [bug-report](https://github.com/oraxen/oraxen/issues/new?assignees=&labels=bug&template=bug-report.yml&title=%5BBUG%5D+%3Cname+for+bug%3E) and we will fix them as soon as possible!\


There is currently a known dupe, if your backpack is using a stackable material like paper.\
Make sure to specify that the item should be unstackable, like shown below.\

#### Per item configuration
```yml
backpack:
  displayname: backpack
  material: PAPER
  unstackable: true #Recommend making it unstackable to avoid abovementioned dupe
  Mechanics:
    backpack:
      rows: 4
      title: "<red>Backpack"                      #Optional, Default: "Backpack"
      open_sound: "entity.shulker.open"       #Optional, Default: "entity.shulker.open"
      close_sound: "entity.shulker.close"     #Optional, Default: "entity.shulker.close"
```

### Music Disc
This allows you to make custom music discs with custom sounds.\
To add a sound simply follow the default example by adding it into `Oraxen/sound.yml`\

Any stereo sounds will not play at a specific position or following an entity.\
If you want this you need to make sure your .ogg sound-file is in mono sound format.



On 1.21+ use the new [JukeboxPlayable-Component](/configuration/items-advanced/components) instead


`song` is the namespace:sound.name as you defined it in `sound.yml`.\
If your sound.yml entry looks like this:
```yml
sounds:
  my_music_disc_song.mysong:
    category: record
    sound: mysong.ogg
```
This means your .ogg file is in the path `Oraxen/sounds/mysong.ogg`,
and your sound-ID is `my_music_disc_song.mysong` with the namespace minecraft.\
If you are importing sounds.json into another namespace, the namespace would naturally not be minecraft
```yml
Mechanics:
  music_disc:
    song: "minecraft:my_music_disc_song.mysong"
```

### Durability

This allows you to change the durability of an item created with Oraxen. Minecraft vanilla wasn't made to handle that kind of modifications, this is why this system is not perfect. You'll not see the good  durability on your item, it will just work as a percentage. What that means is that if for example you create a pickaxe based off the wooden pickaxe (which has 59 of durability by default) and you change it to 5900, you'll still see 59 of durability on your item. But you'll need to break 100 blocks in order to lose of one durability. The cool thing is that the displayed bar will be updated correctly.


On 1.20.5+ use the new [Durability-Component](/configuration/items-advanced/components) instead


#### Per item configuration

There are two options available : ratio and fixed\_amount. You can put only one of these two options on the same item. Ratio allows you to repair a percentage of your item (0.15 will repair 15% of maximum durability while 1.0 will repair it to 100%). Fixe amount repairs a fixed amount of your item durability (put 10 if you want to add 10 durability points to your item for example).

```yaml
Mechanics:
  durability:
    value: 5000 #diamond sword is 1561 by default
```

### Efficiency

Gives the player a mining speed boost (Haste effect) while holding the item. Use negative values for mining fatigue instead.

#### Per item configuration

```yaml
Mechanics:
  efficiency:
    amount: 2 # Haste level (use negative for mining fatigue)
```

### Consumable

Makes an item consumable on right-click. The item amount decreases by 1 when used.

#### Per item configuration

```yaml
Mechanics:
  consumable: {}
```

### Consumable Potion Effects

Apply potion effects when an item is consumed or used. This is commonly combined with the consumable mechanic.

#### Per item configuration

```yaml
Mechanics:
  consumable_potion_effects:
    speed:
      amplifier: 1 # effect level (0 = level 1)
      duration: 600 # in ticks (600 = 30 seconds)
      ambient: false
      particles: true
      icon: true
    regeneration:
      amplifier: 0
      duration: 200
```

### Misc Mechanic
This mechanic has a bunch of small changes you can make to your item.\
What they each do should be pretty self-explanatory.


On 1.20.5+ use the new [FireResistant-Component](/configuration/items-advanced/components) instead of burns_in_X below
On 1.21.2+ use the new [DamageResistant-Component](/configuration/items-advanced/components) instead of burns_in_X/breaks_from_cactus below


```yaml
Mechanics:
  misc:
    breaks_from_cactus: true
    burns_in_fire: true
    burns_in_lava: true
    disable_vanilla_interactions: false
    can_strip_logs: false
    piglins_ignore_when_equipped: false
    compostable: false
    allow_in_vanilla_recipes: true
```

### Repair

This mechanic allows you to use an item to repair another one (which uses vanilla durability or oraxen custom). By default this mechanic is binded to iron, gold and diamond cogs. To use them you just need to click on the item you want to repair.

#### Per item configuration

```yaml
Mechanics:
  repair:
    ratio: 0.10 # 10%
    fixed_amount: 10 # or 10 durability points
```

#### Global configuration

If you enable oraxen_durability_only, this mechanic will only work with items using oraxen Durability mechanic.

```yaml
repair:
  enabled: true
  oraxen_durability_only: false
```

### Commands

This allows you to execute commands (as the console, a player or op player). If this option is not often the most elegant it has the merit of simplifying a lot of things. You can create a cooldown between usages, check if the player has a specific permission and use the item (understand decrease its amount by one when the command is performed).

#### Per item configuration

```yaml
Mechanics:
  commands:
    cooldown: 5 # example cooldown in seconds. This is optional
    permission: "my.awesome.perm" # required permission. This is optional
    one_usage: true # should the amount decrease when used? Default: false
    console:
      # e.g. to kill the player
      - "kill %p%"
    player:
      # e.g. the player performs /spawn
      - "spawn"
    opped_player:
      # e.g. the player gives himself a diamond sword
      - "give diamond_sword 1"
```

### Armor Effects

This allows you to bind a Potion Effect to an armor (or a hat) so that when you equip it you'll get the effect.

#### Per item configuration

[Here](https://hub.spigotmc.org/javadocs/bukkit/org/bukkit/potion/PotionEffectType.html) is a list of all potion effect types available.

```yaml
Mechanics:
  armor_effects:
    night_vision: # the potion effect type
      duration: 10
      amplifier: 0
      ambient: true # Makes potion effect produce more, translucent, particles.
      particles: true # whether this effect has particles or not
      icon: true # whether this effect has an icon or not
```

You can also make an effect only apply if the entire set it equipped.
```yaml
Mechanics:
  armor_effects:
    night_vision:
      requires_full_set: true
      ...
```

### Block and NoteBlock

These mechanic allows you to use an item as block. Since these are quite special mechanics, they have a [dedicated tutorial page](/mechanics/noteblock-mechanic).

### clickAction

This mechanic allows you to run various events when a player clicks a block or furniture. It is very customizable, so it also has a [dedicated tutorial page](/mechanics/all-mechanics/clickaction-mechanic).

### Aura

Do you want to show a cool particle effect when a player holds your item? The Aura mechanic is your way  to go. You can find a list of available particles here: [https://hub.spigotmc.org/javadocs/spigot/org/bukkit/Particle.html](https://hub.spigotmc.org/javadocs/spigot/org/bukkit/Particle.html)

#### Per item configuration (easy)

```yaml
Mechanics:
  aura:
    type: simple # available types: [ simple, ring, helix ]
    particle: PORTAL
```

### Hat

Do you want to create a hat? Use this mechanic so that you'll be able to put any item on your head.

#### Per item configuration (easy)

```yaml
Mechanics:
  hat:
    enabled: true
```

### Skinnable

With this mechanic, you can change the texture of an item using an item with Skin mechanic.

#### Per item configuration

```yaml
Mechanics:
  skinnable: {}
```

### ItemType

With this mechanic, you can change the item type detected by OraxenBlocks. Make sure to use a type declared [inside the block mechanic](/mechanics/noteblock-mechanic#global-configuration).&#x20;

#### Per item configuration

```yaml
Mechanics:
  itemtype:
    value: SUPER_MATERIAL # your itemType
```

### Soulbound

With this mechanic, you can avoid the players to lose their item when they die.

#### Per item configuration

```yaml
Mechanics:
  soulbound:
    lose_chance: 0  # 0-1, chance to lose the item on death (0 = never lose, 1 = always lose)
```

### Custom mechanic

This mechanic allows you to customize events, conditions and actions. Since it is a quite special mechanic, it has its [dedicated tutorial page](/mechanics/all-mechanics/custom-mechanic).

### Skin

This mechanic will allow the item to be a skin for Skinnable mechanic, skin and Skinnable item must have the same material to apply the texture.

#### Per item configuration

```yaml
Mechanics:
  skin: 
    consume: true #consume 1 skin item
```

Commit message:

docs: add toggle light mechanic

content/mechanics/all-mechanics/misc.mdx, after:

---
description: Miscellaneous mechanics for items
---

# Miscellaneous Mechanics

### Custom Food
This mechanic allows you to set food-related properties for any food item.  
This means you can create foods which refill different amounts of hunger and saturation.  
It also lets you set a replacement item for when the food has been consumed.  

Below is a config example of the mechanic-part for a custom food:


On 1.20.5+ use the new [Food-Component](/configuration/items-advanced/components) instead


```yaml
Mechanics:
  food:
    hunger: 10
    saturation: 10
    replacement:
      oraxen_item: any_oraxen_itemid      # Can also be minecraft_type or crucible_item
    effect_probability: 0.35              # The probability of the effect being applied, default is 1.0 / 100%
    effects:
      hunger:                             # Must be a valid potion effect, can find a list https://hub.spigotmc.org/javadocs/bukkit/org/bukkit/potion/PotionEffectType.html 
        amplifier: 1                      # If not set, defaults to 0
        duration: 20                      # Duration in seconds. If not set, defaults to 1 second
        is_ambient: true                  # If not set, defaults to true
        has_particles: true               # If not set, defaults to true
        has_icon: true                    # If not set, defaults to true
      night_vision:
        duration: 60
```

### Backpack
This allows you to turn any item into a backpack.\


This mechanic might cause duplication issues!\
If you find any please open a [bug-report](https://github.com/oraxen/oraxen/issues/new?assignees=&labels=bug&template=bug-report.yml&title=%5BBUG%5D+%3Cname+for+bug%3E) and we will fix them as soon as possible!\


There is currently a known dupe, if your backpack is using a stackable material like paper.\
Make sure to specify that the item should be unstackable, like shown below.\

#### Per item configuration
```yml
backpack:
  displayname: backpack
  material: PAPER
  unstackable: true #Recommend making it unstackable to avoid abovementioned dupe
  Mechanics:
    backpack:
      rows: 4
      title: "<red>Backpack"                      #Optional, Default: "Backpack"
      open_sound: "entity.shulker.open"       #Optional, Default: "entity.shulker.open"
      close_sound: "entity.shulker.close"     #Optional, Default: "entity.shulker.close"
```

### Music Disc
This allows you to make custom music discs with custom sounds.\
To add a sound simply follow the default example by adding it into `Oraxen/sound.yml`\

Any stereo sounds will not play at a specific position or following an entity.\
If you want this you need to make sure your .ogg sound-file is in mono sound format.



On 1.21+ use the new [JukeboxPlayable-Component](/configuration/items-advanced/components) instead


`song` is the namespace:sound.name as you defined it in `sound.yml`.\
If your sound.yml entry looks like this:
```yml
sounds:
  my_music_disc_song.mysong:
    category: record
    sound: mysong.ogg
```
This means your .ogg file is in the path `Oraxen/sounds/mysong.ogg`,
and your sound-ID is `my_music_disc_song.mysong` with the namespace minecraft.\
If you are importing sounds.json into another namespace, the namespace would naturally not be minecraft
```yml
Mechanics:
  music_disc:
    song: "minecraft:my_music_disc_song.mysong"
```

### Durability

This allows you to change the durability of an item created with Oraxen. Minecraft vanilla wasn't made to handle that kind of modifications, this is why this system is not perfect. You'll not see the good  durability on your item, it will just work as a percentage. What that means is that if for example you create a pickaxe based off the wooden pickaxe (which has 59 of durability by default) and you change it to 5900, you'll still see 59 of durability on your item. But you'll need to break 100 blocks in order to lose of one durability. The cool thing is that the displayed bar will be updated correctly.


On 1.20.5+ use the new [Durability-Component](/configuration/items-advanced/components) instead


#### Per item configuration

There are two options available : ratio and fixed\_amount. You can put only one of these two options on the same item. Ratio allows you to repair a percentage of your item (0.15 will repair 15% of maximum durability while 1.0 will repair it to 100%). Fixe amount repairs a fixed amount of your item durability (put 10 if you want to add 10 durability points to your item for example).

```yaml
Mechanics:
  durability:
    value: 5000 #diamond sword is 1561 by default
```

### Efficiency

Gives the player a mining speed boost (Haste effect) while holding the item. Use negative values for mining fatigue instead.

#### Per item configuration

```yaml
Mechanics:
  efficiency:
    amount: 2 # Haste level (use negative for mining fatigue)
```

### Consumable

Makes an item consumable on right-click. The item amount decreases by 1 when used.

#### Per item configuration

```yaml
Mechanics:
  consumable: {}
```

### Consumable Potion Effects

Apply potion effects when an item is consumed or used. This is commonly combined with the consumable mechanic.

#### Per item configuration

```yaml
Mechanics:
  consumable_potion_effects:
    speed:
      amplifier: 1 # effect level (0 = level 1)
      duration: 600 # in ticks (600 = 30 seconds)
      ambient: false
      particles: true
      icon: true
    regeneration:
      amplifier: 0
      duration: 200
```

### Misc Mechanic
This mechanic has a bunch of small changes you can make to your item.\
What they each do should be pretty self-explanatory.


On 1.20.5+ use the new [FireResistant-Component](/configuration/items-advanced/components) instead of burns_in_X below
On 1.21.2+ use the new [DamageResistant-Component](/configuration/items-advanced/components) instead of burns_in_X/breaks_from_cactus below


```yaml
Mechanics:
  misc:
    breaks_from_cactus: true
    burns_in_fire: true
    burns_in_lava: true
    disable_vanilla_interactions: false
    can_strip_logs: false
    piglins_ignore_when_equipped: false
    compostable: false
    allow_in_vanilla_recipes: true
```

### Repair

This mechanic allows you to use an item to repair another one (which uses vanilla durability or oraxen custom). By default this mechanic is binded to iron, gold and diamond cogs. To use them you just need to click on the item you want to repair.

#### Per item configuration

```yaml
Mechanics:
  repair:
    ratio: 0.10 # 10%
    fixed_amount: 10 # or 10 durability points
```

#### Global configuration

If you enable oraxen_durability_only, this mechanic will only work with items using oraxen Durability mechanic.

```yaml
repair:
  enabled: true
  oraxen_durability_only: false
```

### Commands

This allows you to execute commands (as the console, a player or op player). If this option is not often the most elegant it has the merit of simplifying a lot of things. You can create a cooldown between usages, check if the player has a specific permission and use the item (understand decrease its amount by one when the command is performed).

#### Per item configuration

```yaml
Mechanics:
  commands:
    cooldown: 5 # example cooldown in seconds. This is optional
    permission: "my.awesome.perm" # required permission. This is optional
    one_usage: true # should the amount decrease when used? Default: false
    console:
      # e.g. to kill the player
      - "kill %p%"
    player:
      # e.g. the player performs /spawn
      - "spawn"
    opped_player:
      # e.g. the player gives himself a diamond sword
      - "give diamond_sword 1"
```

### Armor Effects

This allows you to bind a Potion Effect to an armor (or a hat) so that when you equip it you'll get the effect.

#### Per item configuration

[Here](https://hub.spigotmc.org/javadocs/bukkit/org/bukkit/potion/PotionEffectType.html) is a list of all potion effect types available.

```yaml
Mechanics:
  armor_effects:
    night_vision: # the potion effect type
      duration: 10
      amplifier: 0
      ambient: true # Makes potion effect produce more, translucent, particles.
      particles: true # whether this effect has particles or not
      icon: true # whether this effect has an icon or not
```

You can also make an effect only apply if the entire set it equipped.
```yaml
Mechanics:
  armor_effects:
    night_vision:
      requires_full_set: true
      ...
```

### Block and NoteBlock

These mechanic allows you to use an item as block. Since these are quite special mechanics, they have a [dedicated tutorial page](/mechanics/noteblock-mechanic).

### clickAction

This mechanic allows you to run various events when a player clicks a block or furniture. It is very customizable, so it also has a [dedicated tutorial page](/mechanics/all-mechanics/clickaction-mechanic).

### Aura

Do you want to show a cool particle effect when a player holds your item? The Aura mechanic is your way  to go. You can find a list of available particles here: [https://hub.spigotmc.org/javadocs/spigot/org/bukkit/Particle.html](https://hub.spigotmc.org/javadocs/spigot/org/bukkit/Particle.html)

#### Per item configuration (easy)

```yaml
Mechanics:
  aura:
    type: simple # available types: [ simple, ring, helix ]
    particle: PORTAL
```

### Hat

Do you want to create a hat? Use this mechanic so that you'll be able to put any item on your head.

#### Per item configuration (easy)

```yaml
Mechanics:
  hat:
    enabled: true
```

### Skinnable

With this mechanic, you can change the texture of an item using an item with Skin mechanic.

#### Per item configuration

```yaml
Mechanics:
  skinnable: {}
```

### ItemType

With this mechanic, you can change the item type detected by OraxenBlocks. Make sure to use a type declared [inside the block mechanic](/mechanics/noteblock-mechanic#global-configuration).&#x20;

#### Per item configuration

```yaml
Mechanics:
  itemtype:
    value: SUPER_MATERIAL # your itemType
```

### Soulbound

With this mechanic, you can avoid the players to lose their item when they die.

#### Per item configuration

```yaml
Mechanics:
  soulbound:
    lose_chance: 0  # 0-1, chance to lose the item on death (0 = never lose, 1 = always lose)
```

### Toggle-Light

With this mechanic, you can create interactive lighting for furniture, noteblocks, and stringblocks. Players can right-click these items to toggle their light level between a base level and a toggle level, allowing them to turn lights on and off.

- Interactive lighting control for custom items
- Support for both static base lighting and toggleable lighting
- State persistence across server restarts
- Seamless integration with existing furniture mechanics (barriers, storage, seats, rotation)

**Important notes**
- For furniture with storage, seat, or rotation mechanics: players must **sneak while right-clicking** to toggle the light
- For furniture with barriers: the light toggles across all barrier blocks in the furniture structure
- Light state is automatically refreshed on server load/reload

#### Per item configuration

```yaml
Mechanics:
  toggle_light:
    light: 5          # Base light level (0-15), always active
    toggle_light: 15  # Toggle light level (0-15), activated on interaction
```

- `light`: The base light level (0-15) that is always active. This is the default state.
- `toggle_light`: The toggle light level (0-15) that activates when players interact with the item. Set this to enable toggleable lighting.

### Custom mechanic

This mechanic allows you to customize events, conditions and actions. Since it is a quite special mechanic, it has its [dedicated tutorial page](/mechanics/all-mechanics/custom-mechanic).

### Skin

This mechanic will allow the item to be a skin for Skinnable mechanic, skin and Skinnable item must have the same material to apply the texture.

#### Per item configuration

```yaml
Mechanics:
  skin: 
    consume: true #consume 1 skin item
```
