content/mechanics/chorusblock-mechanic/index.mdx, before:

---
description: How to add custom blocks using chorus plant states
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

# ChorusBlock Mechanic

The ChorusBlock mechanic allows you to create custom blocks using Minecraft's chorus plant block states. This provides up to **63 unique block variations**. Use this when you need additional block slots beyond NoteBlock or StringBlock.

<Callout type="info">
Not sure which block mechanic to use? See the [Custom Blocks Overview](/mechanics/block-mechanics) for a comparison.
</Callout>

<Callout type="warning">
**Paper Server Recommended**

For best performance and stability, enable this setting in `config/paper-global.yml`:
```yaml
block-updates:
  disable-chorus-plant-updates: true
```
Without this, Oraxen must listen to expensive physics events which may cause lag and minor bugs.
</Callout>

## Basic Configuration

```yaml
my_chorus_block:
  displayname: "<gray>Custom Block"
  material: PAPER
  Pack:
    generate_model: true
    parent_model: "block/cube_all"
    textures:
      - my_block_texture.png
  Mechanics:
    chorusblock:
      custom_variation: 1  # Must be unique, 1-63
      model: my_chorus_block
      hardness: 5
      drop:
        silktouch: false
        loots:
          - { oraxen_item: my_chorus_block, probability: 1.0 }
```

## Configuration Options

| Option | Type | Description |
|--------|------|-------------|
| `custom_variation` | integer | **Required.** Unique ID from 1-63 |
| `model` | string | Block model path |
| `hardness` | integer | Break time multiplier (default: 1) |
| `light` | integer | Light level 0-15 (default: 0) |
| `is_falling` | boolean | Falls like sand/gravel (default: false) |
| `blast_resistant` | boolean | Resists explosions (default: false) |
| `immovable` | boolean | Cannot be moved by pistons (default: false) |
| `drop` | object | Drop configuration |
| `block_sounds` | object | Custom sounds |
| `limited_placing` | object | Placement restrictions |
| `blocklocker` | object | BlockLocker protection |
| `clickActions` | list | Actions on click |

## Custom Variation

Each ChorusBlock must have a unique `custom_variation` between 1 and 63. This ID determines which chorus plant state is used to represent your block.

```yaml
# Block 1
ruby_ore:
  Mechanics:
    chorusblock:
      custom_variation: 1
      # ...

# Block 2
sapphire_ore:
  Mechanics:
    chorusblock:
      custom_variation: 2
      # ...
```

<Callout type="error">
Never reuse a `custom_variation` value. Each must be unique across all ChorusBlock items.
</Callout>

## Drop Configuration

Configure what drops when the block is broken:

```yaml
Mechanics:
  chorusblock:
    custom_variation: 1
    drop:
      silktouch: true  # Only drop with silk touch
      loots:
        - oraxen_item: my_block
          probability: 1.0
        - oraxen_item: bonus_item
          probability: 0.25
          max_amount: 3
```

## Custom Sounds

Add custom sounds for block interactions:

```yaml
Mechanics:
  chorusblock:
    custom_variation: 1
    block_sounds:
      place_sound: block.stone.place
      break_sound: block.stone.break
      hit_sound: block.stone.hit
      step_sound: block.stone.step
      fall_sound: block.stone.fall
```

You can also customize volume and pitch:

```yaml
Mechanics:
  chorusblock:
    block_sounds:
      place:
        sound: block.amethyst_block.place
        volume: 1.0
        pitch: 0.8
      break_sound: block.amethyst_block.break
```

## Light Emission

Make blocks emit light:

```yaml
Mechanics:
  chorusblock:
    custom_variation: 1
    light: 12  # Light level 0-15
```

## Falling Blocks

Create blocks that fall like sand or gravel:

```yaml
Mechanics:
  chorusblock:
    custom_variation: 1
    is_falling: true
```

## Blast Resistant

Make blocks resist explosions:

```yaml
Mechanics:
  chorusblock:
    custom_variation: 1
    blast_resistant: true
```

## Immovable

Prevent pistons from moving the block:

```yaml
Mechanics:
  chorusblock:
    custom_variation: 1
    immovable: true
```

## Limited Placing

Restrict where blocks can be placed:

```yaml
Mechanics:
  chorusblock:
    custom_variation: 1
    limited_placing:
      roof: false
      floor: true
      wall: false
      type: ALLOW  # or DENY
      block_types:
        - GRASS_BLOCK
        - DIRT
      block_tags:
        - base_stone_overworld
      oraxen_blocks:
        - custom_stone
```

## BlockLocker Protection

Enable [BlockLocker](https://www.spigotmc.org/resources/blocklocker.3268/) protection:

```yaml
Mechanics:
  chorusblock:
    custom_variation: 1
    blocklocker:
      can_protect: true
      protection_type: CONTAINER  # CONTAINER, DOOR, or ATTACHABLE
```

## Click Actions

Run commands or play sounds when clicked. See [clickAction mechanic](/mechanics/all-mechanics/clickaction-mechanic) for details.

```yaml
Mechanics:
  chorusblock:
    custom_variation: 1
    clickActions:
      - conditions:
          - "has_permission{perm=my.permission}"
        actions:
          - "[console] say %player% clicked the block!"
```

## Complete Example

Here's a full example of a custom ore block:

```yaml
chorus_ruby_ore:
  displayname: "<red>Ruby Ore"
  material: PAPER
  Pack:
    generate_model: true
    parent_model: "block/cube_all"
    textures:
      - ruby_ore.png
  Mechanics:
    chorusblock:
      custom_variation: 5
      model: chorus_ruby_ore
      hardness: 8
      light: 3
      blast_resistant: true
      block_sounds:
        place_sound: block.deepslate.place
        break_sound: block.deepslate.break
        step_sound: block.deepslate.step
      drop:
        silktouch: true
        loots:
          - oraxen_item: ruby
            probability: 1.0
            max_amount: 2
      limited_placing:
        floor: true
        roof: true
        wall: true
        type: ALLOW
        block_tags:
          - base_stone_overworld
          - base_stone_nether
```

## Comparison with Other Block Mechanics

| Feature | NoteBlock | StringBlock | ChorusBlock |
|---------|-----------|-------------|-------------|
| Max variations | ~800 | 127 | 63 |
| Base block | Note Block | Tripwire | Chorus Plant |
| Custom sounds | Yes | Yes | Yes |
| Light emission | Yes | Yes | Yes |
| Falling blocks | Yes | Yes | Yes |
| Blast resistant | Yes | Yes | Yes |
| Immovable | Yes | Yes | Yes |
| Waterloggable | No | Yes | No |

Choose ChorusBlock when you need additional block slots beyond NoteBlock/StringBlock, or when chorus plants fit your use case better.

Commit message:

docs: clarify ChorusBlock use case for transparent blocks
ChorusBlock is best suited for transparent blocks (leaves, glass) and
performant single-block furniture, not just as overflow when other
block mechanics are full.

content/mechanics/chorusblock-mechanic/index.mdx, after:

---
description: How to add custom blocks using chorus plant states
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

# ChorusBlock Mechanic

The ChorusBlock mechanic allows you to create custom blocks using Minecraft's chorus plant block states. This provides up to **63 unique block variations**.

**Best used for transparent blocks** like custom leaves, glass variants, or single-block furniture that needs see-through rendering. ChorusBlock is more performant than display entities for simple transparent blocks.

<Callout type="info">
Not sure which block mechanic to use? See the [Custom Blocks Overview](/mechanics/block-mechanics) for a comparison.
</Callout>

<Callout type="warning">
**Paper Server Recommended**

For best performance and stability, enable this setting in `config/paper-global.yml`:
```yaml
block-updates:
  disable-chorus-plant-updates: true
```
Without this, Oraxen must listen to expensive physics events which may cause lag and minor bugs.
</Callout>

## Basic Configuration

```yaml
my_chorus_block:
  displayname: "<gray>Custom Block"
  material: PAPER
  Pack:
    generate_model: true
    parent_model: "block/cube_all"
    textures:
      - my_block_texture.png
  Mechanics:
    chorusblock:
      custom_variation: 1  # Must be unique, 1-63
      model: my_chorus_block
      hardness: 5
      drop:
        silktouch: false
        loots:
          - { oraxen_item: my_chorus_block, probability: 1.0 }
```

## Configuration Options

| Option | Type | Description |
|--------|------|-------------|
| `custom_variation` | integer | **Required.** Unique ID from 1-63 |
| `model` | string | Block model path |
| `hardness` | integer | Break time multiplier (default: 1) |
| `light` | integer | Light level 0-15 (default: 0) |
| `is_falling` | boolean | Falls like sand/gravel (default: false) |
| `blast_resistant` | boolean | Resists explosions (default: false) |
| `immovable` | boolean | Cannot be moved by pistons (default: false) |
| `drop` | object | Drop configuration |
| `block_sounds` | object | Custom sounds |
| `limited_placing` | object | Placement restrictions |
| `blocklocker` | object | BlockLocker protection |
| `clickActions` | list | Actions on click |

## Custom Variation

Each ChorusBlock must have a unique `custom_variation` between 1 and 63. This ID determines which chorus plant state is used to represent your block.

```yaml
# Block 1
ruby_ore:
  Mechanics:
    chorusblock:
      custom_variation: 1
      # ...

# Block 2
sapphire_ore:
  Mechanics:
    chorusblock:
      custom_variation: 2
      # ...
```

<Callout type="error">
Never reuse a `custom_variation` value. Each must be unique across all ChorusBlock items.
</Callout>

## Drop Configuration

Configure what drops when the block is broken:

```yaml
Mechanics:
  chorusblock:
    custom_variation: 1
    drop:
      silktouch: true  # Only drop with silk touch
      loots:
        - oraxen_item: my_block
          probability: 1.0
        - oraxen_item: bonus_item
          probability: 0.25
          max_amount: 3
```

## Custom Sounds

Add custom sounds for block interactions:

```yaml
Mechanics:
  chorusblock:
    custom_variation: 1
    block_sounds:
      place_sound: block.stone.place
      break_sound: block.stone.break
      hit_sound: block.stone.hit
      step_sound: block.stone.step
      fall_sound: block.stone.fall
```

You can also customize volume and pitch:

```yaml
Mechanics:
  chorusblock:
    block_sounds:
      place:
        sound: block.amethyst_block.place
        volume: 1.0
        pitch: 0.8
      break_sound: block.amethyst_block.break
```

## Light Emission

Make blocks emit light:

```yaml
Mechanics:
  chorusblock:
    custom_variation: 1
    light: 12  # Light level 0-15
```

## Falling Blocks

Create blocks that fall like sand or gravel:

```yaml
Mechanics:
  chorusblock:
    custom_variation: 1
    is_falling: true
```

## Blast Resistant

Make blocks resist explosions:

```yaml
Mechanics:
  chorusblock:
    custom_variation: 1
    blast_resistant: true
```

## Immovable

Prevent pistons from moving the block:

```yaml
Mechanics:
  chorusblock:
    custom_variation: 1
    immovable: true
```

## Limited Placing

Restrict where blocks can be placed:

```yaml
Mechanics:
  chorusblock:
    custom_variation: 1
    limited_placing:
      roof: false
      floor: true
      wall: false
      type: ALLOW  # or DENY
      block_types:
        - GRASS_BLOCK
        - DIRT
      block_tags:
        - base_stone_overworld
      oraxen_blocks:
        - custom_stone
```

## BlockLocker Protection

Enable [BlockLocker](https://www.spigotmc.org/resources/blocklocker.3268/) protection:

```yaml
Mechanics:
  chorusblock:
    custom_variation: 1
    blocklocker:
      can_protect: true
      protection_type: CONTAINER  # CONTAINER, DOOR, or ATTACHABLE
```

## Click Actions

Run commands or play sounds when clicked. See [clickAction mechanic](/mechanics/all-mechanics/clickaction-mechanic) for details.

```yaml
Mechanics:
  chorusblock:
    custom_variation: 1
    clickActions:
      - conditions:
          - "has_permission{perm=my.permission}"
        actions:
          - "[console] say %player% clicked the block!"
```

## Complete Example

Here's a full example of a custom ore block:

```yaml
chorus_ruby_ore:
  displayname: "<red>Ruby Ore"
  material: PAPER
  Pack:
    generate_model: true
    parent_model: "block/cube_all"
    textures:
      - ruby_ore.png
  Mechanics:
    chorusblock:
      custom_variation: 5
      model: chorus_ruby_ore
      hardness: 8
      light: 3
      blast_resistant: true
      block_sounds:
        place_sound: block.deepslate.place
        break_sound: block.deepslate.break
        step_sound: block.deepslate.step
      drop:
        silktouch: true
        loots:
          - oraxen_item: ruby
            probability: 1.0
            max_amount: 2
      limited_placing:
        floor: true
        roof: true
        wall: true
        type: ALLOW
        block_tags:
          - base_stone_overworld
          - base_stone_nether
```

## Comparison with Other Block Mechanics

| Feature | NoteBlock | StringBlock | ChorusBlock |
|---------|-----------|-------------|-------------|
| Max variations | ~800 | 127 | 63 |
| Base block | Note Block | Tripwire | Chorus Plant |
| Custom sounds | Yes | Yes | Yes |
| Light emission | Yes | Yes | Yes |
| Falling blocks | Yes | Yes | Yes |
| Blast resistant | Yes | Yes | Yes |
| Immovable | Yes | Yes | Yes |
| Waterloggable | No | Yes | No |

Choose ChorusBlock for **transparent blocks** where see-through rendering matters (leaves, glass-like blocks, simple transparent furniture). For opaque blocks, prefer NoteBlock which has more available slots (~800 vs 63).
