content/mechanics/stringblock-mechanic/index.mdx, before:

---
cover: >-
  https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/896841738621177896/966830020419014666/unknown.png
coverY: 0
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

# StringBlock Mechanic

The StringBlock mechanic allows you to create custom blocks using Minecraft's tripwire states. This provides up to **127 unique block variations** and is ideal for plants, flowers, and other decorative elements.

<Callout type="warning">
**Paper Server Recommended**

For best performance, enable this setting in `config/paper-global.yml`:
```yaml
block-updates:
  disable-tripwire-updates: true
```
</Callout>

<Callout type="info">
Variations 65-127 have smaller hitboxes than 1-64.
</Callout>

## How does it work?

StringBlocks use tripwire-based hitboxes, allowing you to make small decorative objects that players can walk through. They are more optimized than furniture for simple decorations.

### Global Configuration

```yaml
stringblock:
  tool_types:
    - WOODEN
    - STONE
    - IRON
    - GOLDEN
    - DIAMOND
    - NETHERITE
  enabled: true
```

## How do I create a decoration?

### Oraxen item and Pack configuration

```yaml
jasmine_flower:
  displayname: "<white>Jasmine Flower"
  material: PAPER
  Pack:
    generate_model: true
    parent_model: "block/cross"
    textures:
      - custom/flowers/jasmine_flower.png # .png extension is not mandatory
```

### StringBlock Mechanic Configuration

To use this mechanic you need to tell oraxen which model to use (to use the generated one, just put the id name of your item). Then you need to use custom\_variation that is not already used by another decoration (since by default 1 is used by brunnera, you can for example use 2). This example of drop settings allows you to get the drop when you mine it with a stone pickaxe.

```yaml
  Mechanics:
    stringblock:
      custom_variation: 2
      model: jasmine_flower
      hardness: 2
      drop:
        silktouch: false
        loots:
          - { oraxen_item: jasmine_flower, probability: 1.0 }
```

## Tall Plants

Create two-block-tall plants like vanilla tall grass or sunflowers. When placed, both blocks are created together.
```yaml
Mechanics:
  stringblock:
    custom_variation: 5
    is_tall: true  # Creates a 2-block tall plant
```

## Random Placement

When the player places this block, randomly choose from a list of other StringBlocks to place instead. Useful for creating varied flower patches.
```yaml
Mechanics:
  stringblock:
    custom_variation: 10
    random_place:
      blocks:
        - red_flower
        - blue_flower
        - yellow_flower
```

## Light Emission

Make StringBlocks emit light (0-15).
```yaml
Mechanics:
  stringblock:
    custom_variation: 6
    light: 10
```

## Blast Resistant
Make blocks survive explosions (TNT, creepers, etc.).
```yaml
Mechanics:
  stringblock:
    blast_resistant: true # Default: false
```

## Immovable
Prevent pistons from pushing or pulling the block.
```yaml
Mechanics:
  stringblock:
    immovable: true # Default: false
```

## BlockLocker
You can use this to allow protection via [BlockLocker](https://www.spigotmc.org/resources/blocklocker.3268/)
Valid protectionTypes are CONTAINER, DOOR, ATTACHABLE
```yaml
Mechanics:
  stringblock:
    blocklocker:
      can_protect: true
      protection_type: CONTAINER
```

The other mechanics are almost the same as the custom blocks, please read their category for more information and not all of them should work correctly, just use the ones on this page.

### How do I create a decoration with my own model?

```yaml
oak_log_mini:
  displayname: "<white>oak_log_mini"
  material: PAPER
  Pack:
    generate_model: false
    model: custom/furniture/oak_log_mini
  Mechanics:
    stringblock:
      custom_variation: 3
      model: custom/furniture/oak_log_mini
      hardness: 2
      drop:
        silktouch: false
        loots:
          - { oraxen_item: oak_log_mini, probability: 1.0 }
```

![](https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/958524021035647046/961424759718047784/unknown.png)

Commit message:

docs: Add Custom Blocks Overview page and improve mechanic docs
- Create comprehensive block mechanics overview page with comparison tables
- Document legacy mushroom stem block mechanic (disabled by default)
- Add "Not sure which to use?" callouts linking to overview
- Improve NoteBlock docs with parent model table
- Clean up StringBlock docs and remove outdated text
- Consolidate Paper server config recommendations in overview
- Reorder navigation to group block mechanics together

content/mechanics/stringblock-mechanic/index.mdx, after:

---
description: How to create plants and decorative blocks
cover: >-
  https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/896841738621177896/966830020419014666/unknown.png
coverY: 0
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

# StringBlock Mechanic

The StringBlock mechanic allows you to create custom blocks using Minecraft's tripwire states. This provides up to **127 unique block variations** and is ideal for plants, flowers, and other decorative elements.

<Callout type="info">
Not sure which block mechanic to use? See the [Custom Blocks Overview](/mechanics/block-mechanics) for a comparison.
</Callout>

<Callout type="warning">
**Paper Server Recommended**

For best performance, enable this setting in `config/paper-global.yml`:
```yaml
block-updates:
  disable-tripwire-updates: true
```
</Callout>

## How Does It Work?

StringBlocks use tripwire-based hitboxes, allowing you to make small decorative objects that players can walk through. They are more optimized than furniture for simple decorations.

**Key features:**
- Players can walk through StringBlocks
- Waterloggable (can be placed underwater)
- Variations 65-127 have smaller hitboxes than 1-64

### Global Configuration

```yaml
stringblock:
  tool_types:
    - WOODEN
    - STONE
    - IRON
    - GOLDEN
    - DIAMOND
    - NETHERITE
  enabled: true
```

## How do I create a decoration?

### Oraxen item and Pack configuration

```yaml
jasmine_flower:
  displayname: "<white>Jasmine Flower"
  material: PAPER
  Pack:
    generate_model: true
    parent_model: "block/cross"
    textures:
      - custom/flowers/jasmine_flower.png # .png extension is not mandatory
```

### StringBlock Mechanic Configuration

To use this mechanic you need to tell oraxen which model to use (to use the generated one, just put the id name of your item). Then you need to use custom\_variation that is not already used by another decoration (since by default 1 is used by brunnera, you can for example use 2). This example of drop settings allows you to get the drop when you mine it with a stone pickaxe.

```yaml
  Mechanics:
    stringblock:
      custom_variation: 2
      model: jasmine_flower
      hardness: 2
      drop:
        silktouch: false
        loots:
          - { oraxen_item: jasmine_flower, probability: 1.0 }
```

## Tall Plants

Create two-block-tall plants like vanilla tall grass or sunflowers. When placed, both blocks are created together.
```yaml
Mechanics:
  stringblock:
    custom_variation: 5
    is_tall: true  # Creates a 2-block tall plant
```

## Random Placement

When the player places this block, randomly choose from a list of other StringBlocks to place instead. Useful for creating varied flower patches.
```yaml
Mechanics:
  stringblock:
    custom_variation: 10
    random_place:
      blocks:
        - red_flower
        - blue_flower
        - yellow_flower
```

## Light Emission

Make StringBlocks emit light (0-15).
```yaml
Mechanics:
  stringblock:
    custom_variation: 6
    light: 10
```

## Blast Resistant
Make blocks survive explosions (TNT, creepers, etc.).
```yaml
Mechanics:
  stringblock:
    blast_resistant: true # Default: false
```

## Immovable
Prevent pistons from pushing or pulling the block.
```yaml
Mechanics:
  stringblock:
    immovable: true # Default: false
```

## BlockLocker
You can use this to allow protection via [BlockLocker](https://www.spigotmc.org/resources/blocklocker.3268/)
Valid protectionTypes are CONTAINER, DOOR, ATTACHABLE
```yaml
Mechanics:
  stringblock:
    blocklocker:
      can_protect: true
      protection_type: CONTAINER
```

## Custom Models

You can use your own 3D models instead of generated ones:

```yaml
oak_log_mini:
  displayname: "<white>oak_log_mini"
  material: PAPER
  Pack:
    generate_model: false
    model: custom/furniture/oak_log_mini
  Mechanics:
    stringblock:
      custom_variation: 3
      model: custom/furniture/oak_log_mini
      hardness: 2
      drop:
        silktouch: false
        loots:
          - { oraxen_item: oak_log_mini, probability: 1.0 }
```

![](https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/958524021035647046/961424759718047784/unknown.png)
