content/creating-content/blocks/shapedblock.mdx, before:

---
description: How to create custom stairs, slabs, doors, trapdoors, grates, and bulbs
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

# ShapedBlock

The ShapedBlock mechanic allows you to create custom **stairs, slabs, doors, trapdoors, grates, and bulbs** using waxed copper blocks as the base material. Each block type supports up to **4 custom variations**.

![Custom stairs, door, trapdoor and leaves in-game](/shaped_blocks.webp)

<Callout type="info">
Not sure which block mechanic to use? See the [Blocks Overview](/creating-content/blocks) for a comparison.
</Callout>

## How It Works

ShapedBlock uses Minecraft's waxed copper block variants (stairs, slabs, doors, trapdoors, grates) as the underlying material. Oraxen automatically:

1. Converts vanilla waxed copper blocks to non-waxed equivalents with an oxidation prevention marker
2. Reserves the waxed copper materials for custom blocks
3. Handles waxing/unwaxing with honeycomb and axes on vanilla copper
4. Converts waxed copper in world generation (Trial Chambers, etc.)

<Callout type="warning">
This mechanic modifies how waxed copper behaves in your world. Vanilla waxed copper blocks will be converted to regular copper (with oxidation prevention) to reserve waxed variants for custom blocks.
</Callout>

## Block Types

| Type | Base Material | Variations | Features |
|------|---------------|------------|----------|
| `STAIR` | Waxed Copper Stairs | 4 | Directional placement, waterlogging |
| `SLAB` | Waxed Copper Slab | 4 | Top/bottom/double placement, waterlogging |
| `DOOR` | Waxed Copper Door | 4 | Two-block tall, openable, powered by redstone |
| `TRAPDOOR` | Waxed Copper Trapdoor | 4 | Openable, powered by redstone, waterlogging |
| `GRATE` | Waxed Copper Grate | 4 | Transparent (ideal for leaves), waterlogging |
| `BULB` | Waxed Copper Bulb | 4 | Toggleable light source, redstone powered |

## Global Configuration

In `mechanics.yml`, you can configure the ShapedBlock mechanic:

```yaml
shaped_block:
  tool_types:
    - WOODEN
    - STONE
    - IRON
    - GOLDEN
    - DIAMOND
    - NETHERITE
  # Convert vanilla waxed copper to non-waxed with oxidation prevention
  convert_vanilla_waxed: true
  # Handle waxed copper in world generation (Trial Chambers, etc.)
  handle_world_generation: true
  enabled: true
```

## Creating Shaped Blocks

### Custom Stairs

```yaml
custom_oak_stairs:
  displayname: "<#8B4513>Custom Oak Stairs"
  material: PAPER
  Pack:
    generate_model: true
    parent_model: block/stairs
    textures:
      - custom_oak_planks
  Mechanics:
    shaped_block:
      type: STAIR
      custom_variation: 1  # 1-4 available
      hardness: 2
      block_sounds:
        break_sound: block.wood.break
        place_sound: block.wood.place
      drop:
        silktouch: false
        loots:
          - oraxen_item: custom_oak_stairs
            probability: 1.0
```

### Custom Slabs

Slabs support top, bottom, and double-slab placement. Double slabs automatically drop 2 items when broken.

```yaml
custom_stone_slab:
  displayname: "<#808080>Custom Stone Slab"
  material: PAPER
  Pack:
    generate_model: true
    parent_model: block/slab
    textures:
      - block/stone
  Mechanics:
    shaped_block:
      type: SLAB
      custom_variation: 1
      hardness: 4
      block_sounds:
        break_sound: block.stone.break
        place_sound: block.stone.place
      drop:
        silktouch: false
        loots:
          - oraxen_item: custom_stone_slab
            probability: 1.0
```

### Custom Doors

Doors require special handling: use `item/generated` in the Pack section for the hand display icon, and specify block textures in the mechanic section for the placed door appearance.

```yaml
custom_oak_door:
  displayname: "<#8B4513>Custom Oak Door"
  material: PAPER
  Pack:
    generate_model: true
    parent_model: item/generated
    textures:
      - custom_oak_door_icon  # Flat icon for hand/inventory display
  Mechanics:
    shaped_block:
      type: DOOR
      custom_variation: 1
      hardness: 2
      # Block textures for the placed door (bottom and top halves)
      textures:
        bottom: block/oak_door_bottom
        top: block/oak_door_top
      block_sounds:
        break_sound: block.wood.break
        place_sound: block.wood.place
      drop:
        silktouch: false
        loots:
          - oraxen_item: custom_oak_door
            probability: 1.0
```

<Callout type="info">
Doors are two blocks tall and automatically handle the top/bottom block placement. Breaking either half drops the door item.
</Callout>

### Custom Trapdoors

```yaml
custom_oak_trapdoor:
  displayname: "<#8B4513>Custom Oak Trapdoor"
  material: PAPER
  Pack:
    generate_model: true
    parent_model: block/template_trapdoor_bottom
    textures:
      - block/oak_trapdoor
  Mechanics:
    shaped_block:
      type: TRAPDOOR
      custom_variation: 1
      hardness: 2
      block_sounds:
        break_sound: block.wood.break
        place_sound: block.wood.place
      drop:
        silktouch: false
        loots:
          - oraxen_item: custom_oak_trapdoor
            probability: 1.0
```

### Custom Grates / Leaves

Grates are transparent blocks that use cutout rendering, making them ideal for custom leaves or other see-through blocks.

```yaml
# Custom leaves using GRATE type for transparency
crystalmush_leaves:
  displayname: "<gradient:#9966FF:#FF66CC>Crystal Mushroom Leaves"
  material: PAPER
  Pack:
    generate_model: true
    parent_model: block/leaves
    textures:
      - default/crystalmush/crystalmush_leaves_anim
  Mechanics:
    shaped_block:
      type: GRATE
      custom_variation: 2
      light: 12  # Emits light
      hardness: 0.2
      block_sounds:
        break_sound: block.grass.break
        place_sound: block.grass.place
      drop:
        silktouch: true  # Only drops with silk touch
        loots:
          - oraxen_item: crystalmush_leaves
            probability: 1.0
```

<Callout type="info">
Use `block/leaves` as the parent model for proper transparency rendering. The GRATE type renders with cutout rules, allowing texture alpha to show through like real leaves.
</Callout>

### Custom Bulbs

Bulbs are toggleable light sources that can be powered by redstone.

```yaml
custom_light_bulb:
  displayname: "<#FFD700>Custom Light Bulb"
  material: PAPER
  Pack:
    generate_model: true
    parent_model: block/cube_all
    textures:
      - custom_bulb_texture
  Mechanics:
    shaped_block:
      type: BULB
      custom_variation: 1
      hardness: 3
      block_sounds:
        break_sound: block.copper.break
        place_sound: block.copper.place
      drop:
        silktouch: false
        loots:
          - oraxen_item: custom_light_bulb
            probability: 1.0
```

## Configuration Options

### Common Properties

| Property | Description | Default |
|----------|-------------|---------|
| `type` | Block type: `STAIR`, `SLAB`, `DOOR`, `TRAPDOOR`, `GRATE`, `BULB` | Required |
| `custom_variation` | Variation number (1-4) | Required |
| `hardness` | Mining hardness | `3` |
| `light` | Light level emitted (0-15) | `0` |

### Block Sounds

```yaml
block_sounds:
  break_sound: block.wood.break
  place_sound: block.wood.place
  hit_sound: block.wood.hit
  step_sound: block.wood.step
  fall_sound: block.wood.fall
  volume: 1.0
  pitch: 1.0
```

### Drop Configuration

```yaml
drop:
  silktouch: false        # Require silk touch for drops
  fortune: false          # Enable fortune enchantment bonus
  minimal_type: WOODEN    # Minimum tool tier required
  best_tools:
    - PICKAXE
  loots:
    - oraxen_item: my_block
      probability: 1.0
```

## Block Behaviors

### Stairs
- Automatically orient based on player facing direction
- Support waterlogging
- Place in correct half (top/bottom) based on click position

### Slabs
- Place as top, bottom, or double slab based on click position
- Double slabs drop 2 items when broken
- Support waterlogging

### Doors
- Two blocks tall, automatically place both halves
- Open/close on right-click
- Powered by redstone
- Breaking either half removes the entire door

### Trapdoors
- Open/close on right-click
- Powered by redstone
- Support waterlogging
- Place on top or bottom of block based on click position

### Grates
- Transparent (see-through) with cutout rendering
- Support waterlogging
- Light passes through
- Ideal for custom leaves or glass-like blocks

### Bulbs
- Toggleable light source
- Powered by redstone
- Click to toggle on/off state

## Parent Models Reference

| Block Type | Recommended Parent Model |
|------------|-------------------------|
| Stairs | `block/stairs` |
| Slabs | `block/slab` |
| Doors | `item/generated` (for item), door textures in mechanic |
| Trapdoors | `block/template_trapdoor_bottom` |
| Grates | `block/cube_all` or `block/leaves` (for foliage) |
| Bulbs | `block/cube_all` |

## Limitations

- Maximum of **4 custom variations per block type** (stairs, slabs, etc.)
- Waxed copper blocks in your world will be converted to regular copper
- Players cannot use waxed copper materials for vanilla purposes when this mechanic is enabled

Commit message:

docs: Note that disabling ShapedBlock restores vanilla behavior

content/creating-content/blocks/shapedblock.mdx, after:

---
description: How to create custom stairs, slabs, doors, trapdoors, grates, and bulbs
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'

# ShapedBlock

The ShapedBlock mechanic allows you to create custom **stairs, slabs, doors, trapdoors, grates, and bulbs** using waxed copper blocks as the base material. Each block type supports up to **4 custom variations**.

![Custom stairs, door, trapdoor and leaves in-game](/shaped_blocks.webp)

<Callout type="info">
Not sure which block mechanic to use? See the [Blocks Overview](/creating-content/blocks) for a comparison.
</Callout>

## How It Works

ShapedBlock uses Minecraft's waxed copper block variants (stairs, slabs, doors, trapdoors, grates) as the underlying material. Oraxen automatically:

1. Converts vanilla waxed copper blocks to non-waxed equivalents with an oxidation prevention marker
2. Reserves the waxed copper materials for custom blocks
3. Handles waxing/unwaxing with honeycomb and axes on vanilla copper
4. Converts waxed copper in world generation (Trial Chambers, etc.)

<Callout type="warning">
This mechanic modifies how waxed copper behaves in your world. Vanilla waxed copper blocks will be converted to regular copper (with oxidation prevention) to reserve waxed variants for custom blocks.
</Callout>

## Block Types

| Type | Base Material | Variations | Features |
|------|---------------|------------|----------|
| `STAIR` | Waxed Copper Stairs | 4 | Directional placement, waterlogging |
| `SLAB` | Waxed Copper Slab | 4 | Top/bottom/double placement, waterlogging |
| `DOOR` | Waxed Copper Door | 4 | Two-block tall, openable, powered by redstone |
| `TRAPDOOR` | Waxed Copper Trapdoor | 4 | Openable, powered by redstone, waterlogging |
| `GRATE` | Waxed Copper Grate | 4 | Transparent (ideal for leaves), waterlogging |
| `BULB` | Waxed Copper Bulb | 4 | Toggleable light source, redstone powered |

## Global Configuration

In `mechanics.yml`, you can configure the ShapedBlock mechanic:

```yaml
shaped_block:
  tool_types:
    - WOODEN
    - STONE
    - IRON
    - GOLDEN
    - DIAMOND
    - NETHERITE
  # Convert vanilla waxed copper to non-waxed with oxidation prevention
  convert_vanilla_waxed: true
  # Handle waxed copper in world generation (Trial Chambers, etc.)
  handle_world_generation: true
  enabled: true
```

<Callout type="info">
If you disable this mechanic (`enabled: false`), vanilla waxed copper behavior will be fully restored. Players will be able to use waxed copper blocks normally without any conversion.
</Callout>

## Creating Shaped Blocks

### Custom Stairs

```yaml
custom_oak_stairs:
  displayname: "<#8B4513>Custom Oak Stairs"
  material: PAPER
  Pack:
    generate_model: true
    parent_model: block/stairs
    textures:
      - custom_oak_planks
  Mechanics:
    shaped_block:
      type: STAIR
      custom_variation: 1  # 1-4 available
      hardness: 2
      block_sounds:
        break_sound: block.wood.break
        place_sound: block.wood.place
      drop:
        silktouch: false
        loots:
          - oraxen_item: custom_oak_stairs
            probability: 1.0
```

### Custom Slabs

Slabs support top, bottom, and double-slab placement. Double slabs automatically drop 2 items when broken.

```yaml
custom_stone_slab:
  displayname: "<#808080>Custom Stone Slab"
  material: PAPER
  Pack:
    generate_model: true
    parent_model: block/slab
    textures:
      - block/stone
  Mechanics:
    shaped_block:
      type: SLAB
      custom_variation: 1
      hardness: 4
      block_sounds:
        break_sound: block.stone.break
        place_sound: block.stone.place
      drop:
        silktouch: false
        loots:
          - oraxen_item: custom_stone_slab
            probability: 1.0
```

### Custom Doors

Doors require special handling: use `item/generated` in the Pack section for the hand display icon, and specify block textures in the mechanic section for the placed door appearance.

```yaml
custom_oak_door:
  displayname: "<#8B4513>Custom Oak Door"
  material: PAPER
  Pack:
    generate_model: true
    parent_model: item/generated
    textures:
      - custom_oak_door_icon  # Flat icon for hand/inventory display
  Mechanics:
    shaped_block:
      type: DOOR
      custom_variation: 1
      hardness: 2
      # Block textures for the placed door (bottom and top halves)
      textures:
        bottom: block/oak_door_bottom
        top: block/oak_door_top
      block_sounds:
        break_sound: block.wood.break
        place_sound: block.wood.place
      drop:
        silktouch: false
        loots:
          - oraxen_item: custom_oak_door
            probability: 1.0
```

<Callout type="info">
Doors are two blocks tall and automatically handle the top/bottom block placement. Breaking either half drops the door item.
</Callout>

### Custom Trapdoors

```yaml
custom_oak_trapdoor:
  displayname: "<#8B4513>Custom Oak Trapdoor"
  material: PAPER
  Pack:
    generate_model: true
    parent_model: block/template_trapdoor_bottom
    textures:
      - block/oak_trapdoor
  Mechanics:
    shaped_block:
      type: TRAPDOOR
      custom_variation: 1
      hardness: 2
      block_sounds:
        break_sound: block.wood.break
        place_sound: block.wood.place
      drop:
        silktouch: false
        loots:
          - oraxen_item: custom_oak_trapdoor
            probability: 1.0
```

### Custom Grates / Leaves

Grates are transparent blocks that use cutout rendering, making them ideal for custom leaves or other see-through blocks.

```yaml
# Custom leaves using GRATE type for transparency
crystalmush_leaves:
  displayname: "<gradient:#9966FF:#FF66CC>Crystal Mushroom Leaves"
  material: PAPER
  Pack:
    generate_model: true
    parent_model: block/leaves
    textures:
      - default/crystalmush/crystalmush_leaves_anim
  Mechanics:
    shaped_block:
      type: GRATE
      custom_variation: 2
      light: 12  # Emits light
      hardness: 0.2
      block_sounds:
        break_sound: block.grass.break
        place_sound: block.grass.place
      drop:
        silktouch: true  # Only drops with silk touch
        loots:
          - oraxen_item: crystalmush_leaves
            probability: 1.0
```

<Callout type="info">
Use `block/leaves` as the parent model for proper transparency rendering. The GRATE type renders with cutout rules, allowing texture alpha to show through like real leaves.
</Callout>

### Custom Bulbs

Bulbs are toggleable light sources that can be powered by redstone.

```yaml
custom_light_bulb:
  displayname: "<#FFD700>Custom Light Bulb"
  material: PAPER
  Pack:
    generate_model: true
    parent_model: block/cube_all
    textures:
      - custom_bulb_texture
  Mechanics:
    shaped_block:
      type: BULB
      custom_variation: 1
      hardness: 3
      block_sounds:
        break_sound: block.copper.break
        place_sound: block.copper.place
      drop:
        silktouch: false
        loots:
          - oraxen_item: custom_light_bulb
            probability: 1.0
```

## Configuration Options

### Common Properties

| Property | Description | Default |
|----------|-------------|---------|
| `type` | Block type: `STAIR`, `SLAB`, `DOOR`, `TRAPDOOR`, `GRATE`, `BULB` | Required |
| `custom_variation` | Variation number (1-4) | Required |
| `hardness` | Mining hardness | `3` |
| `light` | Light level emitted (0-15) | `0` |

### Block Sounds

```yaml
block_sounds:
  break_sound: block.wood.break
  place_sound: block.wood.place
  hit_sound: block.wood.hit
  step_sound: block.wood.step
  fall_sound: block.wood.fall
  volume: 1.0
  pitch: 1.0
```

### Drop Configuration

```yaml
drop:
  silktouch: false        # Require silk touch for drops
  fortune: false          # Enable fortune enchantment bonus
  minimal_type: WOODEN    # Minimum tool tier required
  best_tools:
    - PICKAXE
  loots:
    - oraxen_item: my_block
      probability: 1.0
```

## Block Behaviors

### Stairs
- Automatically orient based on player facing direction
- Support waterlogging
- Place in correct half (top/bottom) based on click position

### Slabs
- Place as top, bottom, or double slab based on click position
- Double slabs drop 2 items when broken
- Support waterlogging

### Doors
- Two blocks tall, automatically place both halves
- Open/close on right-click
- Powered by redstone
- Breaking either half removes the entire door

### Trapdoors
- Open/close on right-click
- Powered by redstone
- Support waterlogging
- Place on top or bottom of block based on click position

### Grates
- Transparent (see-through) with cutout rendering
- Support waterlogging
- Light passes through
- Ideal for custom leaves or glass-like blocks

### Bulbs
- Toggleable light source
- Powered by redstone
- Click to toggle on/off state

## Parent Models Reference

| Block Type | Recommended Parent Model |
|------------|-------------------------|
| Stairs | `block/stairs` |
| Slabs | `block/slab` |
| Doors | `item/generated` (for item), door textures in mechanic |
| Trapdoors | `block/template_trapdoor_bottom` |
| Grates | `block/cube_all` or `block/leaves` (for foliage) |
| Bulbs | `block/cube_all` |

## Limitations

- Maximum of **4 custom variations per block type** (stairs, slabs, etc.)
- Waxed copper blocks in your world will be converted to regular copper
- Players cannot use waxed copper materials for vanilla purposes when this mechanic is enabled
